Biological  A Comparison of Homogenization vs. Enzymatic Lysis for Microbiome Profiling in Clinical Endoscopic Biopsy Tissue Samples Identification of the human microbiome has proven to be of utmost importance with the emerging role of bacteria in various physiological and pathological processes. High throughput sequencing strategies have evolved to assess the composition of the microbiome. To identify possible bias that may exist in the processing of tissue for whole genome sequencing (WGS), it is important to evaluate the extraction method on the overall microbial content and composition. Here we compare two different methods of extraction, homogenization versus enzymatic lysis, on gastric, esophageal and colorectal biopsies and survey the microbial content and composition using WGS and quantitative PCR (qPCR). We examined total bacterial content using universal 16S rDNA qPCR as well as the abundance of three phyla (Actinobacter, Firmicutes, Bacteriodetes) and one genus (Fusobacterium). We found minimal differences between the two extraction methods in the overall community structure or in the abundance of specific clade. Furthermore, based on our qPCR analysis, neither method demonstrated preferential extraction of any particular clade of bacteria, nor significantly altered the detection of gram-positive or gram-negative organisms. However, although the overall microbial composition remained the same and the most prevalent bacteria could be detected effectively using either method, we demonstrate that the homogenization extraction method provides higher microbial DNA content and higher read counts from human tissue biopsy samples of the gastrointestinal tract. Biological-Micro clinical biopsy DNA extraction gastronintestinal tract metagenomics Methods - 16s rDNA microbiome PCR quantitative PCR WHole genome sequencing (WGS)
Biological  Analysis of the X chromosome has been largely neglected in genetic studies mainly because of complex underlying biological mechanisms. On the other hand, the study of human microbiome data (typically over-dispersed counts with an excess of zeros) has generated great interest recently because of advancements in next-generation sequencing technologies. We propose a novel approach to infer the association between host genetic variants in the X-chromosome and microbiome data. The method accounts for random X-chromosome inactivation (XCI), skewed (or nonrandom) XCI (XCI-S), and escape of XCI (XCI-E). The inference is performed through a finite mixture model (FMM), in which an indicator variable denoting the “true” biological mechanism is treated as missing data. An expectation-maximization algorithm on zero-inflated and two-part models is implemented to estimate genetic effects. We investigate the performance of the FMM along with strategies that assume XCI and XCI-E mechanisms for all subjects compared with alternative approaches. Briefly, an XCI mechanism codes males’ genotypes as homozygous females, whereas under XCI-E, males are treated as heterozygous females. By comprehensive simulations, we evaluate tests of the hypothesis under a computationally efficient score statistic. In summary, the FMM renders reduced bias and commensurate power compared to XCI, XCI-E, and alternative strategies while maintaining adequate Type 1 error control. The proposed method has far-reaching applications. In particular, we illustrate its usage on a large-scale human microbiome study, the Genetic, Environmental and Microbial (GEM) project, to test for the genetic association on the X chromosome.
Biological  Introduction Preterm birth (PTB) results from heterogeneous influences and is a major contributor to neonatal mortality and morbidity that continues to have adverse effects on infants beyond the neonatal period. This protocol describes the procedures to determine molecular signatures predictive of PTB through high-frequency sampling during pregnancy, at delivery and the postpartum period.Methods and analysis Four hundred first trimester pregnant women from either Myanmar or Thailand of either Karen or Burman ethnicity, with a viable, singleton pregnancy will be enrolled in this non-interventional, prospective pregnancy birth cohort study and will be followed through to the postpartum period. Fortnightly finger prick capillary blood sampling will allow the monitoring of genome-wide transcript abundance in whole blood. Collection of stool samples and vaginal swabs each trimester, at delivery and postpartum will allow monitoring of intestinal and vaginal microbial composition. In a nested case–control analysis, perturbations of transcript abundance in capillary blood as well as longitudinal changes of the gut, vaginal and oral microbiome will be compared between mothers giving birth to preterm and matched cases giving birth to term neonates. Placenta tissue of preterm and term neonates will be used to determine bacterial colonisation as well as for the establishment of coding and non-coding RNA profiles. In addition, RNA profiles of circulating, non-coding RNA in cord blood serum will be compared with those of maternal peripheral blood serum at time of delivery. Ethics and dissemination This research protocol that aims to detect perturbations in molecular trajectories preceding adverse pregnancy outcomes was approved by the ethics committee of the Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University in Bangkok, Thailand (Ethics Reference: TMEC 15–062), the Oxford Tropical Research Ethics Committee (Ethics Reference: OxTREC: 33–15) and the local Tak Province Community Ethics Advisory Board. The results of this cooperative project will be disseminated in multiple publications staggered over time in international peer-reviewed scientific journals.
Biological  Festuca rubra subsp. pruinosa is a perennial grass that inhabits sea cliffs of the Atlantic coasts of Europe. In this unhospitable environment plants grow in rock crevices and are exposed to abiotic stress factors such as low nutrient availability, wind, and salinity. Festuca rubra subsp. pruinosa is a host of the fungal endophyte Epichloë festucae, which colonizes aerial organs, but its root mycobiota is unknown. The culturable endophytic mycobiota of FRP roots was surveyed in a set of 105 plants sampled at five populations in marine cliffs from the northern coast of Spain. In total, 135 different fungal taxa were identified, 17 of them occurred in more than 10% of plants and in two or more populations. Seven taxa belonging to Fusarium, Diaporthe, Helotiales, Drechslera, Slopeiomyces and Penicillium appeared to be constituents of the core microbiome of Festuca rubra subsp. pruinosa roots because they occurred in more than 20% of the plants analyzed, and at three or more populations. Most fungal strains analyzed (71.8%) were halotolerant. The presence of Epichloë festucae in aboveground tissue was detected in 65.7 % of the plants, but its presence did not seem to significantly affect the structure of the core or other root microbiota, when compared to that of plants free of this endophyte. When plants of the grass Lolium perenne were inoculated with fungal strains obtained from Festuca rubra subsp. pruinosa roots, a Diaporthe strain significantly promoted leaf biomass production under normal and saline (200 mM NaCl) watering regimes. These results suggest that the core mycobiome of Festuca rubra subsp. pruinosa could have a role in host plant adaptation, and might be useful for the improvement of agricultural grasses.
Biological  Pesticide effects on microbial community structure and activity in soil are reviewed, showing that methodological developments within the past few years have generated new possibilities for assessing pesticide effects. The first example is the use of mRNA quantification showing that nitrification processes are indeed very susceptible to some pesticides, and that there is correlation between the mRNA transcript quantity and the nitrification rate. The second example is devoted to pesticides influencing microbial community structures. The emergence of high throughput sequencing techniques now allows a more detailed analysis of which bacterial species are influenced.
Biological  Background Ambient particulate matter (PM) exposure has been associated with respiratory function decline in epidemiological studies. We hypothesize that a possible underlying mechanism is the perturbation of airway microbiome by PM exposure. Methods During October 2016–October 2017, on two human cohorts (n = 115 in total) in Shanghai China, we systematically collected three categories of data: (1) respiratory functions, (2) airway microbiome from sputum, and (3) PM2.5 (PM of ≤ 2.5 µm in diameter) level in ambient air. We investigated the impact of PM2.5 on airway microbiome as well as the link between airway microbiome and respiratory functions using linear mixed regression models. Results The respiratory function of our primary interest includes forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1st second (FEV1). FEV1/FVC, an important respiratory function trait and key diagnosis criterion of COPD, was significantly associated with airway bacteria load (p = 0.0038); and FEV1 was associated with airway microbiome profile (p = 0.013). Further, airway microbiome was significantly influenced by PM2.5 exposure (p = 4.48E-11). Conclusions To our knowledge, for the first time, we demonstrated the impact of PM2.5 on airway microbiome, and reported the link between airway microbiome and respiratory functions. The results expand our understanding on the scope of PM2.5 exposure's influence on human respiratory system, and point to novel etiological mechanism of PM2.5 exposure induced diseases.
Biological  The gut bacterial species, Akkermansia muciniphila is associated with a healthier clinical profile. The purpose of this study was to determine the association between A. muciniphila and glucose homeostasis in patients undergoing bariatric surgery (BS): gastric banding (GB) or Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). This non-randomized prospective study included 65 women with severe obesity. Longitudinal analysis included subjects for whom A. muciniphila data was available at follow up (1, 3, and 12 months; GB (N=10) or RYGB (N=11)). Glucose homeostasis markers were measured under fasting or during an oral glucose tolerance test. Fecal microbiota was analyzed using shotgun metagenomics, and A. muciniphila relative abundance was assessed with 16S rRNA qPCR. A. muciniphila relative abundance was significantly lower in severe obesity (BMI mean (SD) 45.7 (5.4) kg/m2) than moderate obesity (33.2 (3.8) kg/m2) but not associated with glucose homeostasis markers. A significant increase in A. muciniphila relative abundance after RYGB was not correlated with metabolic improvement. Baseline A. muciniphila was correlated with bacterial gene richness and was highest in the high-richness Ruminococcaceae enterotype. A. muciniphila increased in relative abundance after BS in patients with low baseline A. muciniphila, especially those with a Bacteroides 2 enterotype classification. Although decreased in severe obesity, relative abundance of A. muciniphila was not associated with glucose homeostasis before or after BS. A certain level of A. muciniphila abundance might be required to observe a beneficial link to health. The severity of obesity and gut dysbiosis may partly explain the discrepancy with previous findings in less obese populations.
Biological  Background HIV-1 infection and physiological aging are independently linked to elevated systemic inflammation and changes in enteric microbial communities (dysbiosis). However, knowledge of the direct effect of HIV infection on the aging microbiome and potential links to systemic inflammation is lacking. Methods In a cross-sectional study of older people living with HIV (PLWH) (median age 61.5 years, N = 14) and uninfected controls (median 58 years, n = 22) we compared stool microbiota, levels of microbial metabolites (short-chain fatty acid levels, SCFA) and systemic inflammatory biomarkers by HIV serostatus and age. Findings HIV and age were independently associated with distinct changes in the stool microbiome. For example, abundances of Enterobacter and Paraprevotella were higher and Eggerthella and Roseburia lower among PLWH compared to uninfected controls. Age-related microbiome changes also differed by HIV serostatus. Some bacteria with inflammatory potential (e.g. Escherichia) increased with age among PLWH, but not controls. Stool SCFA levels were similar between the two groups yet patterns of associations between individual microbial taxa and SCFA levels differed. Abundance of various genera including Escherichia and Bifidobacterium positively associated with inflammatory biomarkers (e.g. soluble Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptors) among PLWH, but not among controls. Interpretation The age effect on the gut microbiome and associations between microbiota and microbial metabolites or systemic inflammation differed based on HIV serostatus, raising important implications for the impact of therapeutic interventions, dependent on HIV serostatus or age.
Biological  The intensive use of herbicides in agricultural soils of the Pampas region (Argentina) is a matter of environmental concern. We investigated the impacts of three widely used, post-emergence herbicides, glyphosate, 2,4-dicholorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and metsulfuron-methyl, on soil microbial communities by an integrated approach using short-term soil incubations. The key structural and functional parameters were estimated by culturable aerobic heterotrophic bacterial (AHB) density, substrate-induced respiration (SIR), dehydrogenase activity (DHA), fluorescein diacetate (FDA) hydrolysis, and functional richness. Functional richness was evaluated as the proportion of carbon sources utilized in microplates containing various carbohydrates, carboxylic acids, amino acids and aromatic compounds, and 1,3,5-triphenyiltetrazolium chloride (TTC) as redox dye. Three different soil types (Typic Argiudoll, Typic Haplustoll and Petrocalcic Paleustoll) were collected from agricultural fields with reported history of herbicide application. Soil microcosms were treated with one herbicide at a time at a dose 10 times higher than the recommended field application rates (glyphosate, 150mg a.i. kg−1; 2,4-D, 5mg a.i. kg−1; metsulfuron-methyl, 1mg a.i. kg−1soil) and incubated for up to 3 weeks. Metsulfuron-methyl had the least pronounced effects on soil microbial community. 2,4-D showed transient effects on soils, inhibiting either SIR or FDA and stimulating DHA. Several short-term effects of glyphosate on microbial activities and bacterial density were observed: (1) early stimulation of SIR and AHB; (2) dissimilar response in the soils for FDA and DHA; (3) transient increase in functional richness. To conclude, the addition of these herbicides at a dose 10 times higher than the normal field application rates caused minor changes to soil microbial activity, bacterial density and functional richness. The specific changes varied among herbicides, with the effects of glyphosate most pronounced.
Biological  The analysis of the lung microbiome composition is a field of research that recently emerged. It gained great interest in pulmonary diseases such as pneumonia since the microbiome seems to be involved in host immune responses, inflammation, and protection against pathogens. Thus, it is possible that the microbial communities living in the lungs play a role in the outcome and severity of lung infections such as Legionella-caused pneumonia and in the response to antibiotic therapy. In this chapter, all steps necessary for the characterization of the bacterial and fungal fraction of the lung microbiome using high-throughput sequencing approaches are explained, starting from the selection of clinical samples to the analysis of the taxonomic composition, diversity, and ecology of the microbiome.
Biological  Analysis of the relationship between the gut microbiome and dementia: a cross-sectional study conducted in Japan Dysregulation of the gut microbiome is associated with several life-threatening conditions and thus might represent a useful target for the prevention of dementia. However, the relationship between the gut microbial population and dementia has not yet been fully clarified. We recruited outpatients visiting our memory clinic to participate in this study. Information on patient demographics, risk factors, and activities of daily living was collected, and cognitive function was assessed using neuropsychological tests and brain magnetic resonance imaging scans. Fecal samples were obtained, and the gut microbiome was assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis, one of the most well-established and reliable 16S ribosomal RNA-based methods for classifying gut microbiota. Patients were divided into two groups, demented and non-demented. Multivariable logistic regression models were used to identify the variables independently associated with dementia. The T-RFLP analysis revealed differences in the composition of the gut microbiome: the number of Bacteroides (enterotype I) was lower and the number of ‘other’ bacteria (enterotype III) was higher in demented than non-demented patients. Multivariable analyses showed that the populations of enterotype I and enterotype III bacteria were strongly associated with dementia, independent of the traditional dementia biomarkers. Further studies of the metabolites of gut microbes are needed to determine the mechanism underlying this association.
Biological  Association of prevalent vaginal microbiome of mother with occurrence of type I diabetes in child Type I diabetes (T1D) is a rapidly increasing autoimmune disease especially in the Western countries and poses a serious global health problem. Incidence of T1D cannot be fully explained by genetic background, and environmental factors have been assumed to play a role. Environmental conditions and composition of human microbiome have been found to correlate with the incidence of T1D. We asked whether mothers’ prevalent vaginal microbiome could correlate with the incidence of T1D in child. To test this hypothesis, we collected samples of vaginal microbiomes from eight mothers that had at least one child with T1D (child age maximum of 11 years at the time of sampling), born with a vaginal delivery. Eight control mothers had child/children with vaginal delivery and no diabetic child/children. The microbiomes were studied by using 16S rRNA Ion Torrent high throughput sequencing. We found that composition of total and Lactobacillus microbiome was altered, and saw an indication that diversity of vaginal microbiomes of the mothers with a diabetic child could be higher. Based on these pilot observations, we strongly encourage a larger population study to verify whether mother vaginal microbiome diversity and composition are linked to the prevalence of T1D in children.
Biological  Bacterial community structure and effects of picornavirus infection on the anterior nares microbiome in early childhood Background: Little is known regarding the nasal microbiome in early childhood and the impact of respiratory infection on the infants' nasal microbial composition. Here we investigated the temporal dynamics and diversity of the bacterial composition in the anterior nares in children attending daycare centers.; Results: For our investigation, we considered 76 parental-taken nasal swabs of 26 children (aged 13 to 36 months) collected over a study period of 3 months. Overall, there was no significant age-specific effect or seasonal shift in the nasal bacterial community structure. In a sub-sample of 14 healthy children the relative abundance of individual taxa as well as the overall diversity did not reveal relevant changes, indicating a stable community structure over the entire study period. Moreover, the nasal bacterial profiles clustered subject-specific with Bray-Curtis similarities being elevated in intra-subject calculations compared to between-subject calculations. The remaining subset of 12 children provided samples taken during picornavirus infection (PVI) and either before or after a PVI. We detected an association between the relative abundance of members of the genus Streptococcus and PV when comparing both (i) samples taken during PVI with samples out of 14 healthy children and (ii) samples taken during PVI with samples taken after PVI within the same individual. In addition, the diversity was higher during PVI than after infection.; Conclusions: Our findings suggest that a personalized structure of the nasal bacterial community is established already in early childhood and could be detected over a timeframe of 3 months. Studies following infants over a longer time with frequent swab sampling would allow investigating whether certain parameter of the bacterial community, such as the temporal variability, could be related to viral infection.;
Biological  Belowground biodiversity and ecosystem functioning Evidence is mounting that the immense diversity of microorganisms and animals that live belowground contributes significantly to shaping aboveground biodiversity and the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems. Our understanding of how this belowground biodiversity is distributed, and how it regulates the structure and functioning of terrestrial ecosystems, is rapidly growing. Evidence also points to soil biodiversity as having a key role in determining the ecological and evolutionary responses of terrestrial ecosystems to current and future environmental change. Here we review recent progress and propose avenues for further research in this field.
Biological  Bi-directional drug-microbiome interactions of anti-diabetics Type 2 diabetes (T2D) has become a global epidemic. Although several drugs are available to manage T2D, problems associated with person-to-person variability in drug efficacy and potential side-effects remain unresolved. Owing to the emerging role of the gut microbiome in obesity and T2D, the interaction between gut microbes and anti-diabetic drugs and its influence on drugs' functions remains of immediate research interest. On one hand, drugs can manipulate gut microbiome composition and metabolic capacity. Conversely, the metabolic activities of the microbiome and its metabolites can also influence drug metabolism and effects. Hence, understanding this bi-directional drug-microbiome interaction and how it influences the clinical outcomes of antidiabetic drugs can pave the way to develop next-generation strategies to ameliorate diabetes. This review presents evidences demonstrating the putative interactions between anti-diabetic drugs and the gut microbiome, and discusses the potential of microbiome modulators to manipulate drug-microbiome interactions and the drug metabolism.
Biological  Birth mode is associated with earliest strain-conferred gut microbiome functions and immunostimulatory potential The rate of caesarean section delivery (CSD) is increasing worldwide. It remains unclear whether disruption of mother-to-neonate transmission of microbiota through CSD occurs and whether it affects human physiology. Here we perform metagenomic analysis of earliest gut microbial community structures and functions. We identify differences in encoded functions between microbiomes of vaginally delivered (VD) and CSD neonates. Several functional pathways are over-represented in VD neonates, including lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis. We link these enriched functions to individual-specific strains, which are transmitted from mothers to neonates in case of VD. The stimulation of primary human immune cells with LPS isolated from early stool samples of VD neonates results in higher levels of tumour necrosis factor (TNF-α) and interleukin 18 (IL-18). Accordingly, the observed levels of TNF-α and IL-18 in neonatal blood plasma are higher after VD. Taken together, our results support that CSD disrupts mother-to-neonate transmission of specific microbial strains, linked functional repertoires and immune-stimulatory potential during a critical window for neonatal immune system priming.
Biological  Comparative metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analyses reveal the breed effect on the rumen microbiome and its associations with feed efficiency in beef cattle Microorganisms are responsible for fermentation within the rumen and have been reported to contribute to the variation in feed efficiency of cattle. However, to what extent the breed affects the rumen microbiome and its association with host feed efficiency is unknown. Here, rumen microbiomes of beef cattle (n = 48) from three breeds (Angus, Charolais, Kinsella composite hybrid) with high and low feed efficiency were explored using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, aiming to identify differences between functional potentials and activities of same rumen microbiomes and to evaluate the effects of host breed and feed efficiency on the rumen microbiome.
Biological  Comparison of the oral microbiome of patients with generalized aggressive periodontitis and periodontitis-free subjects Objective The primary objectives of the study were to assess differences in complex subgingival bacterial composition between periodontitis-free persons and patients with generalized aggressive periodontitis (gAgP). Background The composition of the oral microbiota plays an important role for both oral and systemic diseases. However, the complex nature of the oral microbiome and its homeostasis is still poorly understood. Material and methods We compared the microbiome of 13 periodontitis-free persons to 13 patients with gAgP. The 16S rRNA genes were amplified, targeting the V3/V4 region using the MiSeq platform. Results In total, 1713 different bacterial species were mapped according to the Greengenes database. Using the Shannon index, no significant differences in alpha diversity were found between the two study groups. In principal component and linear discriminant analyses, disease-specific differences in beta diversity of the microbiome composition were evaluated. Bacteroidetes, Spirochaetes, and Synergistetes were more abundant in gAgP whereas Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Actinobacteria were associated with a healthy periodontium. At the bacterial species level, we showed that Porphyromonas gingivalis is the strongest indicator of gAgP. Treponema denticola and Tanerella forsythia of the “red complex” as well as Filifactor alocis were among the ten best biomarkers for gAgP. Conclusions These results broaden our knowledge of disease-specific differences in the microbial community associated with generalized AgP. A more complex view of the composition of the oral microbiome describes the etiology of generalized AgP in more detail. These results could help to individually adapt periodontal therapy in these patients.
Biological  Cross-Domain and Viral Interactions in the Microbiome The importance of the microbiome to human health is increasingly recognized and has become a major focus of recent research. However, much of the work has focused on a few aspects, particularly the bacterial component of the microbiome, most frequently in the gastrointestinal tract. Yet humans and other animals can be colonized by a wide array of organisms spanning all domains of life, including bacteria and archaea, unicellular eukaryotes such as fungi, multicellular eukaryotes such as helminths, and viruses. As they share the same host niches, they can compete with, synergize with, and antagonize each other, with potential impacts on their host. Here, we discuss these major groups making up the human microbiome, with a focus on how they interact with each other and their multicellular host.
Biological  Cultivated Human Vaginal Microbiome Communities Impact Zika and Herpes Simplex Virus Replication in ex vivo Vaginal Mucosal Cultures The human vaginal microbiome (VMB) is a complex bacterial community that interacts closely with vaginal epithelial cells (VEC) impacting the mucosal phenotype and its responses to pathogenic insults. The VMB and VEC relationship includes nutrient exchange and regulation of signaling molecules that controls numerous host functions and defends against invading pathogens. To better understand infection and replication of sexually transmitted viral pathogens in the human vaginal mucosa we used our ex vivo VEC multilayer culture system. We tested the hypothesis that selected VMB communities could be identified that alter the replication of sexually transmitted viruses consistent with reported clinical associations. Sterile VEC multilayer cultures or those colonized with VMB dominated by specific Lactobacillus spp, or VMB lacking lactobacilli, were infected with Zika virus, (ZIKV) a single stranded RNA virus, or Herpes Simplex Virus type 2 (HSV-2), a double stranded DNA virus. The virus was added to the apical surface of the cultured VEC multilayer to model transmission during vaginal intercourse. Viral replication was measured 48h later by qPCR. The results indicated that VEC cultures colonized by VMB containing Staphylococcus spp, previously reported as inflammatory, significantly reduced the quantity of viral genomes produced by ZIKV. HSV-2 titers were decreased by nearly every VMB tested relative to the sterile control, although Lactobacillus spp-dominated VMBs caused the greatest reduction in HSV-2 titer consistent with clinical observations. To explore the mechanism for reduced ZIKV titers, we investigated inflammation created by ZIKV infection, VMB colonization or pre-exposure to selected TLR agonists. Finally, expression levels of human beta defensins 1-3 were quantified in cultures infected by ZIKV and those colonized by VMBs that impacted ZIKV titers. The data presented expands the utility of this ex vivo model system providing controlled and reproducible methods to study the VMB impact on STIs and indicated a correlation between viral replication and specific bacterial species within the VMB.
Biological  Delayed differentiation of vaginal and uterine microbiomes in dairy cows developing postpartum endometritis Bacterial overgrowth in the uterus is a normal event after parturition. In contrast to the healthy cow, animals unable to control the infection within 21 days after calving develop postpartum endometritis. Studies on the Microbial Ecology of the bovine reproductive tract have focused on either vaginal or uterine microbiomes. This is the first study that compares both microbiomes in the same animals. Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism of the 16S rRNA gene showed that despite large differences associated to individuals, a shared community exist in vagina and uterus during the postpartum period. The largest changes associated with development of endometritis were observed at 7 days postpartum, a time when vaginal and uterine microbiomes were most similar. 16S rRNA pyrosequencing of the vaginal microbiome at 7 days postpartum showed at least three different microbiome types that were associated with later development of postpartum endometritis. All three microbiome types featured reduced bacterial diversity. Taken together, the above findings support a scenario where disruption of the compartmentalization of the reproductive tract during parturition results in the dispersal and mixing of the vaginal and uterine microbiomes, which subsequently are subject to differentiation. This differentiation was observed early postpartum in the healthy cow. In contrast, loss of bacterial diversity and dominance of the microbiome by few bacterial taxa were related to a delayed succession at 7DPP in cows that at 21 DPP or later were diagnosed with endometritis.;
Biological  Delivery mode shapes the acquisition and structure of the initial microbiota across multiple body habitats in newborns Upon delivery, the neonate is exposed for the first time to a wide array of microbes from a variety of sources, including maternal bacteria. Although prior studies have suggested that delivery mode shapes the microbiota's establishment and, subsequently, its role in child health, most researchers have focused on specific bacterial taxa or on a single body habitat, the gut. Thus, the initiation stage of human microbiome development remains obscure. The goal of the present study was to obtain a community-wide perspective on the influence of delivery mode and body habitat on the neonate's first microbiota. We used multiplexed 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing to characterize bacterial communities from mothers and their newborn babies, four born vaginally and six born via Cesarean section. Mothers’ skin, oral mucosa, and vagina were sampled 1 h before delivery, and neonates’ skin, oral mucosa, and nasopharyngeal aspirate were sampled <5 min, and meconium <24 h, after delivery. We found that in direct contrast to the highly differentiated communities of their mothers, neonates harbored bacterial communities that were undifferentiated across multiple body habitats, regardless of delivery mode. Our results also show that vaginally delivered infants acquired bacterial communities resembling their own mother's vaginal microbiota, dominated by Lactobacillus, Prevotella, or Sneathia spp., and C-section infants harbored bacterial communities similar to those found on the skin surface, dominated by Staphylococcus, Corynebacterium, and Propionibacterium spp. These findings establish an important baseline for studies tracking the human microbiome's successional development in different body habitats following different delivery modes, and their associated effects on infant health.
Biological  Diversity of the oral microbiome between dentate and edentulous individuals BACKGROUND: Measurement of saliva microbes is promoted as a way to detect oral and systemic disease, yet there is a multitude of factors that affect the oral microbiome. The salivary microbiome is influenced by oral biofilm of shedding (epithelial) and non-shedding (tooth) surfaces. METHODS: To gauge the ability of salivary microbial analytics to distinguish between edentulous and dentate oral conditions, we looked for differences in the saliva microbiome of subjects with and without teeth. Fifty-two dentate and 49 edentulous subjects provided stimulated saliva samples. 16S rRNA gene sequencing, QIIME-based data processing, and statistical analysis were done using several different analytical approaches to detect differences in the salivary microbiome between the two groups. RESULTS: Bacteria diversity was lower in the edentulous group. Remarkably, all 31 of the most significant differences in taxa were deficits that occur in the edentulous group. As one might expect many of these taxa are attributed to dental plaque and gingival sulcus associated bacteria. CONCLUSION: In sum, the measurement of 16S rRNA genes in the bacteria of the saliva can be used to reproducibly measure differences in the oral microbiome that occur with edentulism, mainly the lack of tooth and tooth-related structures.
Biological  Dose-dependent impact of oxytetracycline on the veal calf microbiome and resistome Background: Antibiotic therapy is commonly used in animal agriculture. Antibiotics excreted by the animals can contaminate farming environments, resulting in long term exposure of animals to sub-inhibitory levels of antibiotics. Little is known on the effect of this exposure on antibiotic resistance. In this study, we aimed to investigate the long term effects of sub-inhibitory levels of antibiotics on the gut microbiota composition and resistome of veal calves in vivo. Forty-two veal calves were randomly assigned to three groups. The first group (OTC-high) received therapeutic oral dosages of 1 g oxytetracycline (OTC), twice per day, during 5 days. The second group (OTC-low) received an oral dose of OTC of 100-200 μg per day during 7 weeks, mimicking animal exposure to environmental contamination. The third group (CTR) did not receive OTC, serving as unexposed control. Antibiotic residue levels were determined over time. The temporal effects on the gut microbiota and antibiotic resistance gene abundance was analysed by metagenomic sequencing.; Results: In the therapeutic group, OTC levels exceeded MIC values. The low group remained at sub-inhibitory levels. The control group did not reach any significant OTC levels. 16S rRNA gene-based analysis revealed significant changes in the calf gut microbiota. Time-related changes accounted for most of the variation in the sequence data. Therapeutic application of OTC had transient effect, significantly impacting gut microbiota composition between day 0 and day 2. By metagenomic sequence analysis we identified six antibiotic resistance genes representing three gene classes (tetM, floR and mel) that differed in relative abundance between any of the intervention groups and the control. qPCR was used to validate observations made by metagenomic sequencing, revealing a peak of tetM abundance at day 28-35 in the OTC-high group. No increase in resistance genes abundance was seen in the OTC-low group.; Conclusions: Under the conditions tested, sub-therapeutic administration of OTC did not result in increased tetM resistance levels as observed in the therapeutic group.;
Biological  Ecological and Evolutionary Forces Shaping Microbial Diversity in the Human Intestine The human gut is populated with as many as 100 trillion cells, whose collective genome, the microbiome, is a reflection of evolutionary selection pressures acting at the level of the host and at the level of the microbial cell. The ecological rules that govern the shape of microbial diversity in the gut apply to mutualists and pathogens alike.
Biological  Ecological dynamics of the vaginal microbiome in relation to health and disease The bacterial composition of the vaginal microbiome is thought to be related to health and disease states of women. This microbiome is particularly dynamic, with compositional changes related to pregnancy, menstruation, and disease states such as bacterial vaginosis. In order to understand these dynamics and their impact on health and disease, ecological theories have been introduced to study the complex interactions between the many taxa in the vaginal bacterial ecosystem. The goal of this review is to introduce the ecological principles that are used in the study of the vaginal microbiome and its dynamics, and to review the application of ecology to vaginal microbial communities with respect to health and disease. Although applications of vaginal microbiome analysis and modulation have not yet been introduced into the routine clinical setting, a deeper understanding of its dynamics has the potential to facilitate development of future practices, for example in the context of postmenopausal vaginal symptoms, stratifying risk for obstetric complications, and controlling sexually transmitted infections.
Biological  Effect of glyphosate on soil microbial activity and biomass Herbicides applied to soils potentially affect soil microbial activity. Quantity and frequency of glyphosate application have escalated with the advent of glyphosate-tolerant crops. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of increasing glyphosate application rate on soil microbial biomass and activity. The soil used was Weswood silt loam. The isopropylamine salt of glyphosate was added at rates of 47, 94, 140, and 234 µg ai g−1 soil based on an assumed 2-mm glyphosate–soil interaction depth. Glyphosate significantly stimulated soil microbial activity as measured by C and N mineralization but did not affect soil microbial biomass. Cumulative C mineralization, as well as mineralization rate, increased with increasing glyphosate rate. Strong linear relationships between mineralized C and N and the amount of C and N added as glyphosate (r2 = 0.995, 0.996) and slopes approximating one indicated that glyphosate was the direct cause of the enhanced microbial activity. An increase in C mineralization rate occurred the first day following glyphosate addition and continued for 14 d. Glyphosate appeared to be directly and rapidly degraded by microbes, even at high application rates, without adversely affecting microbial activity.
Biological  Effect of the Nursing Mother on the Gut Microbiome of the Offspring During Early Mouse Development The development of the gut microbiome is influenced by several factors. It is acquired during and after birth and involves both maternal and environmental factors as well as the genetic disposition of the offspring. However, it is unclear if the microbiome development is directly triggered by the mode of delivery and very early contact with the mother or mostly at later stages of initial development mainly by breast milk provided by the mother. To investigate to what extent the gut microbiome composition of the offspring is determined by the nursing mother, providing breast milk, compared to the birth mother during early development, a cross-fostering experiment involving two genetically different mouse lines was developed, being prone to be obese or lean, respectively. The microbiome of the colon was analyzed by high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing, when the mice were 3 weeks old. The nursing mother affected both α- and β-diversity of the offspring's gut microbiome and shaped its composition. Especially bacterial families directly transferred by breast milk, like Streptococcaceae, or families which are strongly influenced by the quality of the breast milk like Rikenellaceae, showed a strong response. The core microbiome transferred from the obese nursing mother showed a higher robustness in comparison to the microbiome transferred from the lean nursing mother. Overall, the nursing mother impacts the gut microbial composition of the offspring during early development and might play an important role for health and disease of the animals at later stages of life.
Biological  Effects of elevated carbon dioxide on environmental microbes and its mechanisms: A review Before the industrial revolution, the atmospheric CO2 concentration was 180–330 ppm; however, fossil-fuel combustion and forest destruction have led to increased atmospheric CO2 concentration. CO2 capture and storage is regarded as a promising strategy to prevent global warming and ocean acidification and to alleviate elevated atmospheric CO2 concentration, but the leakage of CO2 from storage system can lead to rapid acidification of the surrounding circumstance, which might cause negative influence on environmental microbes. The effects of elevated CO2 on microbes have been reported extensively, but the review regarding CO2 affecting different environmental microorganisms has never been done previously. Also, the mechanisms of CO2 affecting environmental microorganisms are usually contributed to the change of pH values, while the direct influences of CO2 on microorganisms were often neglected. This paper aimed to provide a systematic review of elevated CO2 affecting environmental microbes and its mechanisms. Firstly, the influences of elevated CO2 and potential leakage of CO2 from storage sites on community structures and diversity of different surrounding environmental microbes were assessed and compared. Secondly, the adverse impacts of CO2 on microbial growth, cell morphology and membranes, bacterial spores, and microbial metabolism were introduced. Then, based on biochemical principles and knowledge of microbiology and molecular biology, the fundamental mechanisms of the influences of carbon dioxide on environmental microbes were discussed from the aspects of enzyme activity, electron generation and transfer, and key gene and protein expressions. Finally, key questions relevant to the environmental effect of CO2 that need to be answered in the future were addressed.
Biological  Emerging Role of the Gut Microbiome in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: From Composition to Function The gut microbiome, a diverse microbial community in the gastrointestinal tract, plays a pivotal role in the maintenance of health. The gut microbiome metabolizes dietary and host-derived molecules to produce bioactive metabolites, which have a wide array of effects on host metabolism and immunity. 'Dysbiosis' of the gut microbiome, commonly considered as perturbation of microbiome diversity and composition, has been associated with intestinal and extra-intestinal diseases, including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). A number of endogenous and exogenous factors, such as nutritional intake and xenobiotic exposure, can alter the gut microbiome. We will review the evolving methods for studying the gut microbiome and how these profiling techniques have been utilized to further our understanding of the gut microbial community composition and functional potential in the clinical spectrum of NAFLD. We will highlight microbiome-host interactions that may contribute to the pathogenesis of NAFLD, with a primary focus on mechanisms related to the metabolic output of the gut microbiome. Finally, we will discuss potential therapeutic implications of the gut microbiome in NAFLD
Biological  Engineering root microbiomes for healthier crops and soils using beneficial, environmentally safe bacteria The Green Revolution developed new crop varieties, which greatly improved food security worldwide. However, the growth of these plants relied heavily on chemical fertilizers and pesticides, which have led to an overuse of synthetic fertilizers, insecticides, and herbicides with serious environmental consequences and negative effects on human health. Environmentally friendly plant-growth-promoting methods to replace our current reliance on synthetic chemicals and to develop more sustainable agricultural practices to offset the damage caused by many agrochemicals are proposed herein. The increased use of bioinoculants, which consist of microorganisms that establish synergies with target crops and influence production and yield by enhancing plant growth, controlling disease, and providing critical mineral nutrients, is a potential solution. The microorganisms found in bioinoculants are often bacteria or fungi that reside within either external or internal plant microbiomes. However, before they can be used routinely in agriculture, these microbes must be confirmed as nonpathogenic strains that promote plant growth and survival. In this article, besides describing approaches for discovering plant-growth-promoting bacteria in various environments, including phytomicrobiomes and soils, we also discuss methods to evaluate their safety for the environment and for human health.
Biological  Enterotypes of the human gut microbiome Our knowledge of species and functional composition of the human gut microbiome is rapidly increasing, but it is still based on very few cohorts and little is known about variation across the world. By combining 22 newly sequenced faecal metagenomes of individuals from four countries with previously published data sets, here we identify three robust clusters (referred to as enterotypes hereafter) that are not nation or continent specific. We also confirmed the enterotypes in two published, larger cohorts, indicating that intestinal microbiota variation is generally stratified, not continuous. This indicates further the existence of a limited number of well-balanced host-microbial symbiotic states that might respond differently to diet and drug intake. The enterotypes are mostly driven by species composition, but abundant molecular functions are not necessarily provided by abundant species, highlighting the importance of a functional analysis to understand microbial communities. Although individual host properties such as body mass index, age, or gender cannot explain the observed enterotypes, data-driven marker genes or functional modules can be identified for each of these host properties. For example, twelve genes significantly correlate with age and three functional modules with the body mass index, hinting at a diagnostic potential of microbial markers.
Biological  Environment dominates over host genetics in shaping human gut microbiota Human gut microbiome composition is shaped by multiple factors but the relative contribution of host genetics remains elusive. Here we examine genotype and microbiome data from 1,046 healthy individuals with several distinct ancestral origins who share a relatively common environment, and demonstrate that the gut microbiome is not significantly associated with genetic ancestry, and that host genetics have a minor role in determining microbiome composition. We show that, by contrast, there are significant similarities in the compositions of the microbiomes of genetically unrelated individuals who share a household, and that over 20% of the inter-person microbiome variability is associated with factors related to diet, drugs and anthropometric measurements. We further demonstrate that microbiome data significantly improve the prediction accuracy for many human traits, such as glucose and obesity measures, compared to models that use only host genetic and environmental data. These results suggest that microbiome alterations aimed at improving clinical outcomes may be carried out across diverse genetic backgrounds.
Biological  Environmental biodiversity, human microbiota, and allergy are interrelated Rapidly declining biodiversity may be a contributing factor to another global megatrend—the rapidly increasing prevalence of allergies and other chronic inflammatory diseases among urban populations worldwide. According to the “biodiversity hypothesis,” reduced contact of people with natural environmental features and biodiversity may adversely affect the human commensal microbiota and its immunomodulatory capacity. Analyzing atopic sensitization (i.e., allergic disposition) in a random sample of adolescents living in a heterogeneous region of 100 × 150 km, we show that environmental biodiversity in the surroundings of the study subjects’ homes influenced the composition of the bacterial classes on their skin. Compared with healthy individuals, atopic individuals had lower environmental biodiversity in the surroundings of their homes and significantly lower generic diversity of gammaproteobacteria on their skin. The functional role of the Gram-negative gammaproteobacteria is supported by in vitro measurements of expression of IL-10, a key anti-inflammatory cytokine in immunologic tolerance, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In healthy, but not in atopic, individuals, IL-10 expression was positively correlated with the abundance of the gammaproteobacterial genus Acinetobacter on the skin. These results raise fundamental questions about the consequences of biodiversity loss for both allergic conditions and public health in general.
Biological  Evolutionary dynamics of bacteria in the gut microbiome within and across hosts Gut microbiota are shaped by a combination of ecological and evolutionary forces. While the ecological dynamics have been extensively studied, much less is known about how species of gut bacteria evolve over time. Here, we introduce a model-based framework for quantifying evolutionary dynamics within and across hosts using a panel of metagenomic samples. We use this approach to study evolution in approximately 40 prevalent species in the human gut. Although the patterns of between-host diversity are consistent with quasi-sexual evolution and purifying selection on long timescales, we identify new genealogical signatures that challenge standard population genetic models of these processes. Within hosts, we find that genetic differences that accumulate over 6-month timescales are only rarely attributable to replacement by distantly related strains. Instead, the resident strains more commonly acquire a smaller number of putative evolutionary changes, in which nucleotide variants or gene gains or losses rapidly sweep to high frequency. By comparing these mutations with the typical between-host differences, we find evidence that some sweeps may be seeded by recombination, in addition to new mutations. However, comparisons of adult twins suggest that replacement eventually overwhelms evolution over multi-decade timescales, hinting at fundamental limits to the extent of local adaptation. Together, our results suggest that gut bacteria can evolve on human-relevant timescales, and they highlight the connections between these short-term evolutionary dynamics and longer-term evolution across hosts.;
Biological  Exact variance component tests for longitudinal microbiome studies In metagenomic studies, testing the association between microbiome composition and clinical outcomes translates to testing the nullity of variance components. Motivated by a lung human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) microbiome project, we study longitudinal microbiome data by using variance component models with more than two variance components. Current testing strategies only apply to models with exactly two variance components and when sample sizes are large. Therefore, they are not applicable to longitudinal microbiome studies. In this paper, we propose exact tests (score test, likelihood ratio test, and restricted likelihood ratio test) to (a) test the association of the overall microbiome composition in a longitudinal design and (b) detect the association of one specific microbiome cluster while adjusting for the effects from related clusters. Our approach combines the exact tests for null hypothesis with a single variance component with a strategy of reducing multiple variance components to a single one. Simulation studies demonstrate that our method has a correct type I error rate and superior power compared to existing methods at small sample sizes and weak signals. Finally, we apply our method to a longitudinal pulmonary microbiome study of HIV-infected patients and reveal two interesting genera Prevotella and Veillonella associated with forced vital capacity. Our findings shed light on the impact of the lung microbiome on HIV complexities
Biological  Exploiting the Oral Microbiome to Prevent Tooth Decay: Has Evolution Already Provided the Best Tools? To compete in the relatively exposed oral cavity, resident microbes must avoid being replaced by newcomers. This selective constraint, coupled with pressure on the host to cultivate a beneficial microbiome, has rendered a commensal oral microbiota that displays colonization resistance, protecting the human host from invasive species, including pathogens. Rapid increases in carbohydrate consumption have disrupted the evolved homeostasis between the oral microbiota and dental health, reflected by the high prevalence of dental caries. Development of novel modalities to prevent caries has been the subject of a breadth of research. This mini review provides highlights of these endeavors and discusses the rationale and pitfalls behind the major avenues of approach. Despite efficacy, fluoride and other broad-spectrum interventions are unlikely to further reduce the incidence of dental caries. The most promising methodologies in development are those that exploit the exclusive nature of the healthy oral microbiome. Probiotics derived from the dental plaque of healthy individuals sharply antagonize cariogenic species, such as Streptococcus mutans. Meanwhile, targeted antimicrobials allow for the killing of specific pathogens, allowing reestablishment of a healthy microbiome, presumably with its protective effects. The oral microbiota manufactures a massive array of small molecules, some of which are correlated with health and are likely to antagonize pathogens. The prohibitive cost associated with sufficiently rigorous clinical trials, and the status of dental caries as a non-life-threatening condition will likely continue to impede the advancement of new therapeutics to market. Nevertheless, there is room for optimism, as it appears evolution may have already provided the best tools.
Biological  Exploring the Human Microbiome: The Potential Future Role of Next-Generation Sequencing in Disease Diagnosis and Treatment The interaction between the human microbiome and immune system has an effect on several human metabolic functions and impacts our well-being. Additionally, the interaction between humans and microbes can also play a key role in determining the wellness or disease status of the human body. Dysbiosis is related to a plethora of diseases, including skin, inflammatory, metabolic, and neurological disorders. A better understanding of the host-microbe interaction is essential for determining the diagnosis and appropriate treatment of these ailments. The significance of the microbiome on host health has led to the emergence of new therapeutic approaches focused on the prescribed manipulation of the host microbiome, either by removing harmful taxa or reinstating missing beneficial taxa and the functional roles they perform. Culturing large numbers of microbial taxa in the laboratory is problematic at best, if not impossible. Consequently, this makes it very difficult to comprehensively catalogue the individual members comprising a specific microbiome, as well as understanding how microbial communities function and influence host-pathogen interactions. Recent advances in sequencing technologies and computational tools have allowed an increasing number of metagenomic studies to be performed. These studies have provided key insights into the human microbiome and a host of other microbial communities in other environments. In the present review, the role of the microbiome as a therapeutic agent and its significance in human health and disease is discussed. Advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies for surveying host-microbe interactions are also discussed. Additionally, the correlation between the composition of the microbiome and infectious diseases as described in previously reported studies is covered as well. Lastly, recent advances in state-of-the-art bioinformatics software, workflows, and applications for analysing metagenomic data are summarized.
Biological  Extensive Unexplored Human Microbiome Diversity Revealed by Over 150,000 Genomes from Metagenomes Spanning Age, Geography, and Lifestyle The body-wide human microbiome plays a role in health, but its full diversity remains uncharacterized, particularly outside of the gut and in international populations. We leveraged 9,428 metagenomes to reconstruct 154,723 microbial genomes (45% of high quality) spanning body sites, ages, countries, and lifestyles. We recapitulated 4,930 species-level genome bins (SGBs), 77% without genomes in public repositories (unknown SGBs [uSGBs]). uSGBs are prevalent (in 93% of well-assembled samples), expand underrepresented phyla, and are enriched in non-Westernized populations (40% of the total SGBs). We annotated 2.85 M genes in SGBs, many associated with conditions including infant development (94,000) or Westernization (106,000). SGBs and uSGBs permit deeper microbiome analyses and increase the average mappability of metagenomic reads from 67.76% to 87.51% in the gut (median 94.26%) and 65.14% to 82.34% in the mouth. We thus identify thousands of microbial genomes from yet-to-be-named species, expand the pangenomes of human-associated microbes, and allow better exploitation of metagenomic technologies
Biological  Food additives, contaminants and other minor components: effects on human gut microbiota—a review Gut bacteria play an important role in several metabolic processes and human diseases, such as obesity and accompanying co-morbidities, such as fatty liver disease, insulin resistance/diabetes, and cardiovascular events. Among other factors, dietary patterns, probiotics, prebiotics, synbiotics, antibiotics, and non-dietary factors, such as stress, age, exercise, and climatic conditions, can dramatically impact the human gut microbiota equilibrium and diversity. However, the effect of minor food constituents, including food additives and trace contaminants, on human gut microbiota has received less attention. Consequently, the present review aimed to provide an objective perspective of the current knowledge regarding the impacts of minor food constituents on human gut microbiota and consequently, on human health.
Biological  Gastrointestinal (non-systemic) antibiotic rifaximin differentially affects chronic stress-induced changes in colon microbiome and gut permeability without effect on behavior Chronic stress is often accompanied by gastrointestinal symptoms, which might be due to stress-induced shift of gut microbiome to pathogenic bacteria. It has been hypothesized that stress alters gut permeability and results in mild endotoxemia which exaggerates HPA activity and contributes to anxiety and depression. To reveal the relationship between microbiome composition, stress-induced gastrointestinal functions and behavior, we treated chronically stressed mice with non-absorbable antibiotic, rifaximin. The 'two hits' stress paradigm was used, where newborn mice were separated from their mothers for 3 h daily as early life adversity (maternal separation, MS) and exposed to 4 weeks chronic variable stress (CVS) as adults. 16S rRNA based analysis of gut microbiome revealed increases of Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria and more specifically, Clostridium species in chronically stressed animals. In mice exposed to MS + CVS, we found extenuation of colonic mucosa, increased bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph node, elevation of plasma LPS levels and infiltration of F4/80 positive macrophages into the colon lamina propria. Chronically stressed mice displayed behavioral signs of anxiety-like behavior and neophobia. Rifaximin treatment decreased Clostridium concentration, gut permeability and LPS plasma concentration and increased colonic expression of tight junction proteins (TJP1, TJP2) and occludin. However, these beneficial effects of rifaximin in chronically stressed mice was not accompanied by positive changes in behavior. Our results suggest that non-absorbable antibiotic treatment alleviates stress-induced local pathologies, however, does not affect stress-induced behavior. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved)
Biological  Grape berry surface bacterial microbiome: impact from the varieties and clones in the same vineyard from central China Aims Bacterial microbiome on grape berry surface may play an important role in grape quality and health. This study aims to investigate the impact of grape varieties and clones on grape berry surface bacterial microbiome from the same vineyard. Methods and Results High-throughput sequencing strategy was used to investigate the bacterial diversity and abundance on the grape surfaces of 12 clones belonging to six varieties grown in the same vineyard of Zhengzhou Fruit Research Institute in Henan Province. In total, 45 bacterial phyla and 933 genera were detected from all samples. Cyanobacteria, Proteobacteria and Firmicutes were the most abundant and prevalent phyla, while Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, Acidobacteria and Planctomycetes were grape clone specific phyla. The nonrank genus from phylum Cyanobacteria occupied 30–81% of grape clones from Italian Riesling (GRX), Cabernet Franc (PLZ), Pinot Blanc (BBN) and Riesling (LSL). Interestingly, Bacillus, Pseudomonas and Lactococcus were the only three prevalent genera found on all the clones. Furthermore, the predicted functional activities of grape surface bacterial communities varied according to the clones. Conclusions The present study revealed that in addition to the grape varieties, the variations in grape clone background may also affect the bacterial microbiome on grape surfaces which may ultimately determine their functional activities. Significance and Impact of the Study This research provides an important information for grape planting and wine fermentation that not only the grape varieties need to be paid attention but also grape clones from the specific variety need to be concerned.
Biological  Gut microbiome and bone The gut microbiome is now viewed as a tissue that interacts bidirectionally with the gastrointestinal, immune, endocrine and nervous systems, affecting the cellular responses in numerous organs. Evidence is accumulating of gut microbiome involvement in a growing number of pathophysiological processes, many of which are linked to inflammatory responses. More specifically, data acquired over the last decade point to effects of the gut microbiome on bone mass regulation and on the development of bone diseases (such as osteoporosis) and of inflammatory joint diseases characterized by bone loss. Mice lacking a gut microbiome have bone mass alteration that can be reversed by gut recolonization. Changes in the gut microbiome composition have been reported in mice with estrogen-deficiency osteoporosis and have also been found in a few studies in humans. Probiotic therapy decreases bone loss in estrogen-deficient animals. The effect of the gut microbiome on bone tissue involves complex mechanisms including modulation of CD4+T cell activation, control of osteoclastogenic cytokine production and modifications in hormone levels. This complexity may contribute to explain the discrepancies observed betwwen some studies whose results vary depending on the age, gender, genetic background and treatment duration. Further elucidation of the mechanisms involved is needed. However, the available data hold promise that gut microbiome manipulation may prove of interest in the management of bone diseases.
Biological  Gut microbiome and cancer immunotherapy Microbiome is becoming crucial in that the balance between human health and disease can be mediated by the gut microbiome. The gut microbiome can modulate the host immune system both locally and systemically. Cancer immunotherapy has emerged as a promising way in the treatment of patients with cancer. Accumulating evidence supports that microbiome affects the therapeutic efficacy of cancer immunotherapy, particularly immune checkpoint inhibitors. Here, we discuss the mutual relationship among gut microbiome, cancer, immunity, and cancer immunotherapy, with a focus on immunotherapy. Also, we briefly introduce the relevant challenges that affect the therapeutic efficacy and present the possible solutions.
Biological  Gut microbiome and type 2 diabetes: where we are and where to go? Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is a highly prevalent metabolic disorder characterized by an imbalance in blood glucose level, altered lipid profile and high blood pressure. Genetic constituents, high-fat and high-energy dietary habits, and a sedentary lifestyle are three major factors that contribute to high risk of T2D. Several studies have reported gut microbiome dysbiosis as a factor in rapid progression of insulin resistance in T2D that accounts for about 90% of all diabetes cases worldwide. The gut microbiome dysbiosis may reshape intestinal barrier functions and host metabolic and signaling pathways, which are directly or indirectly related to the insulin resistance in T2D. Thousands of the metabolites derived from microbes interact with the epithelial, hepatic and cardiac cell receptors that modulate host physiology. Xenobiotics including dietary components, antibiotics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs strongly affect the gut microbial composition and can promote dysbiosis. Any change in the gut microbiota can shift the host metabolism towards increased energy harvest during diabetes and obesity. However, the exact mechanisms behind the dynamics of gut microbes and their impact on host metabolism at the molecular level are yet to be deciphered. We reviewed the published literature for better understanding of the dynamics of gut microbiota, factors that potentially induce gut microbiome dysbiosis and their relation to the progression of T2D. Special emphasis was also given to understand the gut microbiome induced breaching of intestinal barriers and/or tight junctions and their relation to insulin resistance.
Biological  Gut microbiome disruption altered the biotransformation and liver toxicity of arsenic in mice The mammalian gut microbiome (GM) plays a critical role in xenobiotic biotransformation and can profoundly affect the toxic effects of xenobiotics. Previous in vitro studies have demonstrated that gut bacteria have the capability to metabolize arsenic (As); however, the specific roles of the gut microbiota in As metabolism in vivo and the toxic effects of As are largely unknown. Here, we administered sodium arsenite to conventionally raised mice (with normal microbiomes) and GM-disrupted mice with antibiotics to investigate the role of the gut microbiota in As biotransformation and its toxicity. We found that the urinary total As levels of GM-disrupted mice were much higher, but the fecal total As levels were lower, than the levels in the conventionally raised mice. In vitro experiments, in which the GM was incubated with As, also demonstrated that the gut bacteria could adsorb or take up As and thus reduce the free As levels in the culture medium. With the disruption of the gut microbiota, arsenic biotransformation was significantly perturbed. Of note, the urinary monomethylarsonic acid/dimethylarsinic acid ratio, a biomarker of arsenic metabolism and toxicity, was markedly increased. Meanwhile, the expression of genes of one-carbon metabolism, including folr2, bhmt, and mthfr, was downregulated, and the liver S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) levels were significantly decreased in the As-treated GM-disrupted mice only. Moreover, As exposure altered the expression of genes of the p53 signaling pathway, and the expression of multiple genes associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was also changed in the As-treated GM-disrupted mice only. Collectively, disruption of the GM enhances the effect of As on one-carbon metabolism, which could in turn affect As biotransformation. GM disruption also increases the toxic effects of As and may increase the risk of As-induced HCC in mice.
Biological  Gut microbiota and a selectively bred taste phenotype: A novel model of microbiome-behavior relationships Objectives: The microbiota-gut-brain axis is increasingly implicated in obesity, anxiety, stress, and other health-related processes. Researchers have proposed that gut microbiota may influence dietary habits, and pathways through the microbiota-gut-brain axis make such a relationship feasible; however, few data bear on the hypothesis. As a first step in the development of a model system, the gut microbiome was examined in rat lines selectively outbred on a taste phenotype with biobehavioral profiles that have diverged with respect to energy regulation, anxiety, and stress. Methods: Occidental low and high-saccharin–consuming rats were assessed for body mass and chow, water, and saccharin intake; littermate controls had shared cages with rats in the experimental group but were not assessed. Cecum and colon microbial communities were profiled using Illumina 16S rRNA sequencing and multivariate analysis of microbial diversity and composition. Results: The saccharin phenotype was confirmed (low-saccharin–consuming rats, 0.7Δ% [0.9Δ%]; high-saccharin– consuming rats, 28.1Δ% [3.6Δ%]). Regardless of saccharin exposure, gut microbiota differed between lines in terms of overall community similarity and taxa at lower phylogenetic levels. Specifically, 16 genera in three phyla distinguished the lines at a 10% false discovery rate. Discussion: The study demonstrates for the first time that rodent lines created through selective pressure on taste and differing on functionally related correlates host different microbial communities. Whether the microbiota are causally related to the taste phenotype or its correlates remains to be determined. These findings encourage further inquiry on the relationship of the microbiome to taste, dietary habits, emotion, and health. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)
Biological  Gut–neuroimmune interactions: the unexpected role of the immune system in brain development The exciting and somewhat unexpected relationship between the immune system and the brain has become one of the most fascinating topics in neuroscience. Even though the immune system was initially implicated in resolving viral and bacterial threats, it is now becoming more evident that it also plays a role in processes in the brain, both under healthy and pathological conditions. This novel role of the immune system in brain health has been implicated in various psychopathologies where neurodevelopment, stress and mood are central. In particular, its role in healthy brain development is becoming more evident, and understanding neuroimmune communication is becoming crucial in treating neurodevelopmental and mood disorders in later life. In the brain, glia function as part of the innate immune system and are programmed to respond to pathogens and physical injury. They also play an important role in neuronal development and pruning. These cells communicate with and respond to chemical signals, such as cytokines and chemokines, which can then initiate or downregulate inflammatory responses. Finally, the trillions of microbes residing in the gut can also stimulate cytokine and chemokine responses in the periphery and play an important role in both immunity and brain development.
Biological  High-Throughput Sequencing of the 16S rRNA Gene as a Survey to Analyze the Microbiomes of Free-Living Ciliates Paramecium Ciliates are the largest group of ubiquitous aquatic bacterivorous protists, and many species are easily cultivated. However, only few studies reported prokaryotic communities naturally associated with ciliate cells. Herein, we analyzed the microbiome composition of several strains of Paramecium (Ciliophora) originating from different locations and belonging to two morpho-species by high-throughput sequencing (HTS) of the 16S rRNA gene. Possible reasons of HTS results bias were addressed comparing DNA libraries obtained using different primers and different number of ciliate cells. Microbiomes associated with ciliates and their environments were always significantly different by prokaryotic taxonomic composition and bacterial richness. There were also pronounced differences between Paramecium strains. Interestingly, potentially pathogenic bacteria were revealed in Paramecium microbiomes.
Biological  Host and Microbiome Genome-Wide Association Studies: Current State and Challenges The involvement of the microbiome in health and disease is well established. Microbiome genome-wide association studies (mGWAS) are used to elucidate the interaction of host genetic variation with the microbiome. The emergence of this relatively new field has been facilitated by the advent of next generation sequencing technologies that enable the investigation of the complex interaction between host genetics and microbial communities. In this paper, we review recent studies investigating host-microbiome interactions using mGWAS. Additionally, we highlight the marked disparity in the sampling population of mGWAS carried out to date and draw attention to the critical need for inclusion of diverse populations.
Biological  IMG/M v.5.0: an integrated data management and comparative analysis system for microbial genomes and microbiomes The Integrated Microbial Genomes & Microbiomes system v.5.0 (IMG/M: https://img.jgi.doe.gov/m/) contains annotated datasets categorized into: archaea, bacteria, eukarya, plasmids, viruses, genome fragments, metagenomes, cell enrichments, single particle sorts, and metatranscriptomes. Source datasets include those generated by the DOE’s Joint Genome Institute (JGI), submitted by external scientists, or collected from public sequence data archives such as NCBI. All submissions are typically processed through the IMG annotation pipeline and then loaded into the IMG data warehouse. IMG’s web user interface provides a variety of analytical and visualization tools for comparative analysis of isolate genomes and metagenomes in IMG. IMG/M allows open access to all public genomes in the IMG data warehouse, while its expert review (ER) system (IMG/MER: https://img.jgi.doe.gov/mer/) allows registered users to access their private genomes and to store their private datasets in workspace for sharing and for further analysis. IMG/M data content has grown by 60% since the last report published in the 2017 NAR Database Issue. IMG/M v.5.0 has a new and more powerful genome search feature, new statistical tools, and supports metagenome binning.
Biological  Investigation of the Skin Microbiome: Swabs vs Biopsies BACKGROUND: Human skin is populated by diverse bacteria and there is increasing evidence that resident bacteria play a key role initiating immune responses in cutaneous diseases such as atopic dermatitis, psoriasis and hidradenitis suppurativa. Bacteria are present at all layers of the skin but many studies have relied on swabs to profile the skin microbiota. As the pathogenesis of many skin conditions is dermal, we wished to compare the microbiota obtained in swabs (surface) and biopsies (dermis). Using 16S rRNA gene sequencing we established the microbial profiles of skin swabs and skin biopsies in sixteen subjects. We found differences in both diversity and taxonomic composition of the microbiome obtained from swabs and biopsies of the same individual. Several taxa were found to be more abundant in the swabs, which displayed significantly higher community richness, but Clostridiales and Bacteroidetes were significantly enriched in the biopsies. The majority of published research on cutaneous microbiota has been based on skin swabs, which represent the surface of the skin. Our study demonstrated a clear difference between the microbiome observed in skin swabs and skin biopsies. These findings may be highly relevant in disorders such as psoriasis where pathogenesis arises in the dermis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Biological  Linking metacommunity theory and symbiont evolutionary ecology Processes that occur both within and between hosts can influence the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of symbionts, a broad term that includes parasitic and disease-causing organisms. Metacommunity theory can integrate these local- and regional-scale dynamics to explore symbiont community composition patterns across space. In this article I emphasize that symbionts should be incorporated into the metacommunity concept. I highlight the utility of metacommunity theory by discussing practical and general benefits that emerge from considering symbionts in a metacommunity framework. Specifically, investigating the local and regional drivers of symbiont community and metacommunity structure will lead to a more holistic understanding of symbiont ecology and evolution and could reveal novel insights into the roles of symbiont communities in mediating host health.
Biological  Linking the gut microbiota to a brain neurotransmitter The past decade has yielded substantial evidence that the gut microbiome modulates brain function, including for instance behaviors relevant to anxiety and depression, pointing to a need to identify the biological pathways involved. In 2013 Clarke and colleagues reported that the early-life microbiome regulates the hippocampal serotonergic system in a sex-dependent manner, findings that opened up numerous lines of inquiry on the effects of the microbiome on neurodevelopment and behavior. 
Biological  Making Sense of … the Microbiome in Psychiatry Microorganisms can be found almost anywhere, including in and on the human body. The collection of microorganisms associated with a certain location is called a microbiota, with its collective genetic material referred to as the microbiome. The largest population of microorganisms on the human body resides in the gastrointestinal tract; thus, it is not surprising that the most investigated human microbiome is the human gut microbiome. On average, the gut hosts microbes from more than 60 genera and contains more cells than the human body. The human gut microbiome has been shown to influence many aspects of host health, including more recently the brain., Several modes of interaction between the gut and the brain have been discovered, including via the synthesis of metabolites and neurotransmitters, activation of the vagus nerve, and activation of the immune system. A growing body of work is implicating the microbiome in a variety of psychological processes and neuropsychiatric disorders. These include mood and anxiety disorders, neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia, and even neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases. Moreover, it is probable that most psychotropic medications have an impact on the microbiome., Here, an overview will be provided for the bidirectional role of the microbiome in brain health, age-associated cognitive decline, and neurological and psychiatric disorders. Furthermore, a primer on the common microbiological and bioinformatics techniques used to interrogate the microbiome will be provided. This review is meant to equip the reader with a primer to this exciting research area that is permeating all areas of biological psychiatry research.
Biological  Manipulating the Microbiome With Fecal Transplantation to Treat Ulcerative Colitis Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is multifactorial, resulting from a complex interplay of genetic predisposition, environmental factors, immune dysregulation, and microorganisms within the intestine.1 Available therapies have focused almost exclusively on suppressing the aberrant host immune response. Although biologic agents have improved the clinical outcomes for patients with Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis (UC), concerns related to risk of infection and malignancy cause anxiety for clinicians and patients, who must be treated with these medications long-term. Patients with IBD have been shown to have alterations in gut microbiota such as lower diversity of microorganisms and increased numbers of proinflammatory and enteroadherent bacterial species,2 but whether these alterations are a cause or consequence of the disease state is unclear. Nevertheless, as the efficacy and safety of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) for treatment of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) has become increasingly recognized,3 interest in FMT as a primary treatment for other conditions associated with imbalance in the intestinal microbiome, such as IBD, has also increased.
Biological  Mapping the Surface Microbiome and Metabolome of Brown Seaweed Fucus vesiculosus by Amplicon Sequencing, Integrated Metabolomics and Imaging Techniques The brown alga Fucus vesiculosus is a keystone marine species, which is subject to heavy surface colonisation. This study was designed to analyse the surface epibiome of F. vesiculosus in conjunction with the composition and spatial distribution of its surface metabolome. The amplicon sequencing, SEM and CARD-FISH imaging studies showed Alphaproteobacteria to predominate the epibiotic bacteria. Fungi of the class Eurotiomycetes were visualised for the first time on an algal surface. An untargeted metabolomics approach using molecular networks, in silico prediction and manual dereplication showed the differential metabolome of the surface and the whole tissue extracts. In total, 50 compounds were putatively dereplicated by UPLC-MS/MS, 37 of which were previously reported from both seaweeds and microorganisms. Untargeted spatial metabolomics by DESI-Imaging MS identified the specific localisation and distribution of various primary and secondary metabolites on surface imprints and in algal cross sections. The UPLC-MS, DESI-IMS and NMR analyses failed to confirm the presence of any surface-associated metabolite, except for mannitol, which were previously reported from F. vesiculosus. This is the first study analysing the seaweed surface microbiome in conjunction with untargeted surface metabolomics and spatial metabolomics approaches.
Biological  Maternal microbiome and pregnancy outcomes Alterations of the human microbiome are a known characteristic of various inflammatory disease states and have been linked to spontaneous preterm birth and other adverse pregnancy outcomes. Recent advances in metagenomic research have proven that the placenta harbors its own rich diverse microbiome, even in clinically healthy pregnancies, and preterm birth may be a result of hematogenous infection rather than exclusively ascending infection as previously hypothesized. In this review, we describe the microbiome in healthy nongravid and gravid women to contrast it with the alterations of the microbiome associated with spontaneous preterm birth. We also discuss the importance of host gene-environment interactions and the potential for microbiota-specific targeted therapies to reduce the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes.
Biological  Metabolomics and Microbiomes as Potential Tools to Evaluate the Effects of the Mediterranean Diet The approach to studying diet–health relationships has progressively shifted from individual dietary components to overall dietary patterns that affect the interaction and balance of low-molecular-weight metabolites (metabolome) and host-enteric microbial ecology (microbiome). Even though the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) has been recognized as a powerful strategy to improve health, the accurate assessment of exposure to the MedDiet has been a major challenge in epidemiological and clinical studies. Interestingly, while the effects of individual dietary components on the metabolome have been described, studies investigating metabolomic profiles in response to overall dietary patterns (including the MedDiet), although limited, have been gaining attention. Similarly, the beneficial effects of the MedDiet on cardiometabolic outcomes may be mediated through gut microbial changes. Accumulating evidence linking food ingestion and enteric microbiome alterations merits the evaluation of the microbiome-mediated effects of the MedDiet on metabolic pathways implicated in disease. In this narrative review, we aimed to summarize the current evidence from observational and clinical trials involving the MedDiet by (1) assessing changes in the metabolome and microbiome for the measurement of diet pattern adherence and (2) assessing health outcomes related to the MedDiet through alterations to human metabolomics and/or the microbiome.
Biological  Microbiome networks and change-point analysis reveal key community changes associated with cystic fibrosis pulmonary exacerbations Episodes of significant worsening of cystic fibrosis symptoms, known as pulmonary exacerbations (PEs), are associated with oxygen-deficient (anoxic) conditions and increased activity of ‘anaerobic’ bacteria, which thrive in the absence of oxygen. Researchers in Canada, led by David Guttman at the University of Toronto, compared genetic data on microbial populations in sputum samples collected during PEs and at times of better health. The study revealed a strong correlation between the activity and interactions among anaerobic bacteria and the onset of PEs. Investigating the significance of these changes in the lung environment and its microbial populations may help design treatment strategies to reduce the frequency of PEs and their potentially fatal consequences. The authors suggest that antibiotics that specifically target anaerobic bacteria may prove beneficial, as may hyperbaric oxygen therapy, which oxygenates the lung tissue.
Biological  Microbiome-metabolome reveals the contribution of gut-kidney axis on kidney disease Dysbiosis represents changes in composition and structure of the gut microbiome community (microbiome), which may dictate the physiological phenotype (health or disease). Recent technological advances and efforts in metagenomic and metabolomic analyses have led to a dramatical growth in our understanding of microbiome, but still, the mechanisms underlying gut microbiome-host interactions in healthy or diseased state remain elusive and their elucidation is in infancy. Disruption of the normal gut microbiota may lead to intestinal dysbiosis, intestinal barrier dysfunction, and bacterial translocation. Excessive uremic toxins are produced as a result of gut microbiota alteration, including indoxyl sulphate, p-cresyl sulphate, and trimethylamine-N-oxide, all implicated in the variant processes of kidney diseases development. This review focuses on the pathogenic association between gut microbiota and kidney diseases (the gut-kidney axis), covering CKD, IgA nephropathy, nephrolithiasis, hypertension, acute kidney injury, hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis in clinic. Targeted interventions including probiotic, prebiotic and symbiotic measures are discussed for their potential of re-establishing symbiosis, and more effective strategies for the treatment of kidney diseases patients are suggested. The novel insights into the dysbiosis of the gut microbiota in kidney diseases are helpful to develop novel therapeutic strategies for preventing or attenuating kidney diseases and complications.;
Biological  MICROBIOME: The ecology of the microbiome: Networks, competition, and stability The human gut harbors a large and complex community of beneficial microbes that remain stable over long periods. This stability is considered critical for good health but is poorly understood. Here we develop a body of ecological theory to help us understand microbiome stability. Although cooperating networks of microbes can be efficient, we find that they are often unstable. Counterintuitively, this finding indicates that hosts can benefit from microbial competition when this competition dampens cooperative networks and increases stability. More generally, stability is promoted by limiting positive feedbacks and weakening ecological interactions. We have analyzed host mechanisms for maintaining stability—including immune suppression, spatial structuring, and feeding of community members—and support our key predictions with recent data.
Biological  Microbiomes as Metacommunities: Understanding Host-Associated Microbes through Metacommunity Ecology Interest in host-associated microbiomes has skyrocketed recently, yet our ability to explain microbiome variation has remained stubbornly low. Considering scales of interaction beyond the level of the individual host could lead to new insights. Metacommunity theory has many of the tools necessary for modeling multiscale processes and has been successfully applied to host microbiomes. However, the biotic nature of the host requires an expansion of theory to incorporate feedback between the habitat patch (host) and their local (microbial) community. This feedback can have unexpected effects, is predicted to be common, and can arise through a variety of mechanisms, including developmental, ecological, and evolutionary processes. We propose a new way forward for both metacommunity theory and host microbiome research that incorporates this feedback.
Biological  Microbiota affects the expression of genes involved in HPA axis regulation and local metabolism of glucocorticoids in chronic psychosocial stress The commensal microbiota affects brain functioning, emotional behavior and ACTH and corticosterone responses to acute stress. However, little is known about the role of the microbiota in shaping the chronic stress response in the peripheral components of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and in the colon. Here, we studied the effects of the chronic stress-microbiota interaction on HPA axis activity and on the expression of colonic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) system, cytokines and 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11HSD1), an enzyme that determines locally produced glucocorticoids. Using specific pathogen-free (SPF) and germ-free (GF) BALB/c mice, we showed that the microbiota modulates emotional behavior in social conflicts and the response of the HPA axis, colon and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) to chronic psychosocial stress. In the pituitary gland, microbiota attenuated the expression of Fkbp5, a gene regulating glucocorticoid receptor sensitivity, while in the adrenal gland, it attenuated the expression of genes encoding steroidogenesis (MC2R, StaR, Cyp11a1) and catecholamine synthesis (TH, PNMT). The pituitary expression of CRH receptor type 1 (CRHR1) and of proopiomelanocortin was not influenced by microbiota. In the colon, the microbiota attenuated the expression of 11HSD1, CRH, urocortin UCN2 and its receptor, CRHR2, but potentiated the expression of cytokines TNFα, IFNγ, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-13 and IL-17, with the exception of IL-1β. Compared to GF mice, chronic stress upregulated in SPF animals the expression of pituitary Fkbp5 and colonic CRH and UCN2 and downregulated the expression of colonic cytokines. Differences in the stress responses of both GF and SPF animals were also observed when immunophenotype of MLN cells and their secretion of cytokines were analyzed. The data suggest that the presence of microbiota/intestinal commensals plays an important role in shaping the response of peripheral tissues to stress and indicates possible pathways by which the environment can interact with glucocorticoid signaling.
Biological  Mode of Delivery – Effects on Gut Microbiota and Humoral Immunity Background: The rate of caesarean deliveries has increased 10-fold worldwide during the past decades. Objective: To evaluate differences in the establishment of gut microbiota in infants born by vaginal or caesarean delivery and its impact on mucosal immunity. Methods: Altogether, 165 consecutive children, prospectively followed from birth at our clinic in Turku, Finland, were gathered; 141 (85%) were born by vaginal delivery and 24 (15%) by caesarean section. Blood was drawn at physician visits for indirect evaluation of mucosal immunity by ELISPOT assay. Faecal samples were obtained for determination of the gut microbiota by fluorescence in situ hybridization of bacterial cells. Results: Infants delivered by caesarean section harboured fewer bifidobacteria at an early age and were shown to mount a stronger humoral immune response. At 1 month of age, the total gut bacterial cell counts per 1 g faeces were higher in vaginally delivered infants (9.9 × 10<sup>9</sup>, 95% CI 7.9 × 10<sup>9</sup>–1.2 × 10<sup>10</sup>) as compared to caesarean section delivered (3.1 × 10<sup>9</sup>, 95% CI 1.1 × 10<sup>9</sup>–8.6 × 10<sup>9</sup>) (p = 0.001). This distinction was mainly due to the greater number of bifidobacteria in vaginally delivered infants (1.9 × 10<sup>9</sup>, 95% CI 6.3 × 10<sup>8</sup>–5.6 × 10<sup>9</sup> vs. 1.5 × 10<sup>6</sup>, 95% CI 4.1 × 10<sup>2</sup>–5.7 × 10<sup>9</sup>, respectively) (p = 0.001). During the first year of life, the total number of IgA-, IgG- and IgM-secreting cells was lower (p = 0.03, p = 0.02, p = 0.11, respectively) in infants born by vaginal delivery than in those born by caesarean section, possibly reflecting excessive antigen exposure across the vulnerable gut barrier. Conclusions: Our findings demonstrate that the mode of delivery may have, possibly via gut microbiota development, significant effects on immunological functions in the infant 
Biological  Moderate Renal Impairment and Toxic Metabolites Produced by the Intestinal Microbiome: Dietary Implications Objective Toxic metabolites produced by the intestinal microbiome from animal proteins, carnitine (mainly from red meat), or phosphatidylcholine (mainly from egg yolk), have important adverse effects on cardiovascular disease. These are renally eliminated and may be termed gut-derived uremic toxins (GDUT). We hypothesized that even moderate renal impairment and intake of nutrient precursors would raise plasma levels of GDUT. Design A cohort study. Setting Academic medical center. Subjects Patients attending stroke prevention clinics at a university medical center were recruited. Main Outcome Measure Nutrient intake was assessed by the 131-item Harvard Food Frequency Questionnaire; estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was caculated using the Chronic Kidney Disease-Epidemiology (EPI) equations. Plasma levels of trimethylamine n-oxide, p-cresyl sulfate, hippuric acid, p-cresyl glucuronide, pheny acetyl glutamine, and phenyl sulfate were measured by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Results Among 316 patients recruited, the mean (standard deviation [SD]) age was 66.74 (10.42) years; 59.7% were men. Mean eGFR was 76.03 ± 20.01; 57 (18%) had eGFR<60 mL/min/1.73 m2. Plasma levels of all GDUT were significantly higher even with moderate reduction of eGFR. Nutrient intake affected plasma levels of some GDUT; the effects differed by eGFR above and below 60 mL/min/1.73 m2. Plasma levels were obtained fasting, so we probably underestimated the effect of nutrient intake. Conclusions Even moderate impairment of renal function was associated with higher plasma levels of GDUT. This has dietary implications for patients at risk of atherosclerosis, particularly in those with impaired renal function (including the elderly): they should limit intake of animal protein, red meat, and egg yolk. It also points the way to novel approaches to vascular prevention, including more intensive dialysis, renal transplantation, and modification of the intestinal microbiome with probiotics or fecal transplantation. 
Biological  Monocyte-Macrophage activation is associated with NAFLD and liver fibrosis in HIV mono-infection independently of the gut microbiome and bacterial translocation BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is common among people living with HIV. There is limited data available on the pathophysiology of NAFLD and the development of fibrosis in this population. OBJECTIVES: to investigate the association of bacterial translocation, adipose tissue dysfunction, monocyte activation and gut dysbiosis in patients with HIV mono-infection and NAFLD. METHODS: Cases with biopsy-proven NAFLD and HIV mono-infection were age and sex-matched to HIV+ and HIV- controls. Markers of bacterial translocation (lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP), bacterial DNA and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)), adipose tissue dysfunction (leptin, adiponectin) and monocyte activation (sCD14 and sCD163) were measured by ELISA. Hepatic patterns of macrophage activation were explored with immunohistochemistry. 16 s rRNA sequencing was performed with stool. RESULTS: Thirty-three cases were included (≥F2 fibrosis n = 16), matched to HIV+ (n = 29) and HIV- (n = 17) controls. Cases with NAFLD were more obese (BMI 31.0 ± 4.4 kg/m vs 24.1 ± 2.8 kg/m p < 0.001) and had significantly increased levels of sCD14, sCD163 and higher leptin to adiponectin ratio versus HIV+ controls. Cases with ≥F2 verses < F2 fibrosis had increased sCD14 (1.4 ± 0.4 vs 1.1 ± 0.3 μg/ml, p = 0.023) and sCD163 (1.0 ± 0.3 vs 0.8 ± 0.3 μg/ml, p = 0.060) which correlated with waist circumference (sCD14 p = 0.022, sCD163 p = 0.011). Immunohistochemistry showed increased hepatic portal macrophage clusters in patients with fibrosis. No markers of bacterial translocation or changes to the microbiome were associated with NAFLD or fibrosis. CONCLUSION: NAFLD fibrosis stage in HIV mono-infected patients is associated with monocyte activation in the context of obesity, which may be independent of bacterial translocation and gut microbiome.
Biological  Nanoparticle microarray for high-throughput microbiome metabolomics using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry A high-throughput matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI)-MS-based metabolomics platform was developed using a pre-fabricated microarray of nanoparticles and organic matrices. Selected organic matrices, inorganic nanoparticle (NP) suspensions, and sputter coated metal NPs, as well as various additives, were tested for metabolomics analysis of the turkey gut microbiome. Four NPs and one organic matrix were selected as the optimal matrix set: α-cyano-4-hydroycinnamic acid, Fe3O4 and Au NPs in positive ion mode with 10 mM sodium acetate, and Cu and Ag NPs in negative ion mode with no additive. Using this set of five matrices, over two thousand unique metabolite features were reproducibly detected across intestinal samples from turkeys fed a diet amended with therapeutic or sub-therapeutic antibiotics (200 g/ton or 50 g/ton bacitracin methylene disalicylate (BMD), respectively), or non-amended feed. Among the thousands of unique features, 56 of them were chemically identified using MALDI-MS/MS, with the help of in-parallel liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS analysis. Lastly, as a proof of concept application, this protocol was applied to 52 turkey cecal samples at three different time points from the antibiotic feed trial. Statistical analysis indicated variations in the metabolome of turkeys with different ages or treatments. Open image in new window Graphical abstract ᅟ
Biological  Natural immunity: Biodiversity loss and inflammatory diseases are two global megatrends that might be related We are witnessing two global and deeply worrying trends that, at first glance, seem unrelated. The first trend is the ongoing decline in biodiversity, which is caused by human actions. It could well become the sixth mass extinction of animal and plant species on Earth, comparable in magnitude with the fifth mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous, 65 million years ago. The second trend is a rapid increase in chronic diseases that are associated with inflammation, especially in developed countries (Fig 1). Inflammation is a key attribute in asthma and allergic diseases, autoimmune diseases and many cancers; even depression has been associated with the presence of inflammatory markers. In this article, we argue that these two phenomena are more closely related than commonly thought: declining biodiversity might actually increase the risk to humanity from chronic diseases and thereby cause a major public health problem.
Biological  Obesity, diabetes, and the gut microbiome: an updated review Introduction: Obesity and diabetes are two of the most prevalent health problems and leading causes of death globally. As research on the intestinal microbiome increases, so does our understanding of its intricate relationship to these diseases, although this has yet to be fully elucidated.Areas covered: This review evaluates the role of the gut microbiome in obesity and diabetes, including the influences of internal and environmental factors. Literature searches were performed using the keywords ‘diabetes,’ ‘insulin resistance,’ ‘gut microbiome,’ ‘gut microbes,’ ‘obesity,’ and ‘weight gain.’Expert commentary: Highlights of recent research include new findings regarding the effects of caloric restriction, which expound the importance of diet in shaping the gut microbiome, and studies reinforcing the lasting implications of antibiotic use for diabetes and obesity, particularly repeated doses in early childhood.Mechanistically, interactions between the microbiome and the host innate immune system, mediated by TLR4-LPS signaling, have been shown to meditate the metabolic benefits of caloric restriction. Further, gut microbes haven now been shown to regulate oxygen availability via butyrate production, thus protecting against the proliferation of pathogens such as E. coli and Salmonella. However, many microbial metabolites remain unidentified and their roles in obesity and diabetes remain to be determined.
Biological  Omadacycline Gut Microbiome Exposure Does Not Induce Clostridium difficile Proliferation or Toxin Production in a Model That Simulates the Proximal, Medial, and Distal Human Colon A clinically reflective model of the human colon was used to investigate the effects of the broad-spectrum antibiotic omadacycline on the gut microbiome and the subsequent potential to induce simulated Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). Triple-stage chemostat gut models were inoculated with pooled human fecal slurry from healthy volunteers (age, ≥60 years)., A clinically reflective model of the human colon was used to investigate the effects of the broad-spectrum antibiotic omadacycline on the gut microbiome and the subsequent potential to induce simulated Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). Triple-stage chemostat gut models were inoculated with pooled human fecal slurry from healthy volunteers (age, ≥60 years). Models were challenged twice with 107 CFU C. difficile spores (PCR ribotype 027). Omadacycline effects were assessed in a single gut model. Observations were confirmed in a parallel study with omadacycline and moxifloxacin. Antibiotic instillation was performed once daily for 7 days. The models were observed for 3 weeks postantibiotic challenge. Gut microbiota populations and C. difficile total viable and spore counts were enumerated daily by culture. Cytotoxin titers and antibiotic concentrations were also measured. Gut microbiota populations were stable before antibiotic challenge. Moxifloxacin instillation caused an ∼4 log10 CFU/ml decline in enterococci and Bacteroides fragilis group populations and an ∼3 log10 CFU/ml decline in bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, followed by simulated CDI (vegetative cell proliferation and detectable toxin). In both models, omadacycline instillation decreased populations of bifidobacteria (∼8 log10 CFU/ml), B. fragilis group populations (7 to 8 log10 CFU/ml), lactobacilli (2 to 6 log10 CFU/ml), and enterococci (4 to 6 log10 CFU/ml). Despite these microbial shifts, there was no evidence of C. difficile bacteria germination or toxin production. In contrast to moxifloxacin, omadacycline exposure did not facilitate simulated CDI, suggesting this antibiotic may have a low propensity to induce CDI in the clinical setting.
Biological  Partial restoration of the microbiota of cesarean-born infants via vaginal microbial transfer Exposure of newborns to the maternal vaginal microbiotais interrupted with cesarean birthing. Babies delivered by cesarean section (C-section) acquire a microbiota that differs from that of vaginally delivered infants, and C-section delivery has been associated with increased risk for immune and metabolic disorders. Here we conducted a pilot study in which infants delivered by C-section were exposed to maternal vaginal fluids at birth. Similarly to vaginally delivered babies, the gut, oral and skin bacterial communities of these newborns during the first 30 d of life was enriched in vaginal bacteriawhich were underrepresented in unexposed C-sectiondelivered infantsand the microbiome similarity to those of vaginally delivered infants was greater in oral and skin samples than in anal samples. Although the long-term health consequences of restoring the microbiota of C-sectiondelivered infants remain unclear, our results demonstrate that vaginal microbes can be partially restored at birth in C-sectiondelivered babies.
Biological  Plant microbiome-dependent immune enhancing action of Echinacea purpurea is enhanced by soil organic matter content We previously demonstrated that extracts from Echinacea purpurea material varied substantially in their ability to activate macrophages in vitro and that this variation was due to differences in their content of bacterial components. The purpose of the current study was to identify soil conditions (organic matter, nitrogen, and moisture content) that alter the macrophage activation potential of E. purpurea and determine whether these changes in activity correspond to shifts in the plant-associated microbiome. Increased levels of soil organic matter significantly enhanced macrophage activation exhibited by the root extracts of E. purpurea (p < 0.0001). A change in soil organic matter content from 5.6% to 67.4% led to a 4.2-fold increase in the macrophage activation potential of extracts from E. purpurea. Bacterial communities also differed significantly between root materials cultivated in soils with different levels of organic matter (p < 0.001). These results indicate that the level of soil organic matter is an agricultural factor that can alter the bacterial microbiome, and thereby the activity, of E. purpurea roots. Since ingestion of bacterial preparation (e.g., probiotics) is reported to impact human health, it is likely that the medicinal value of Echinacea is influenced by cultivation conditions that alter its associated bacterial community.
Biological  Pseudomonas aeruginosa transcriptome during human infection Microbiologists typically use laboratory systems to study the bacteria that infect humans. Over time, this has created a gap between what researchers understand about bacteria growing in the laboratory and those growing in humans. It is well-known that the behavior of bacteria is shaped by their environment, but how this behavior differs in laboratory models compared with human infections is poorly understood. We compared transcription data from a variety of human infections with data from a range of in vitro samples. We found important differences in expression of genes involved in antibiotic resistance, cell–cell communication, and metabolism. Understanding the bacterial expression patterns in human patients is a necessary step toward improved therapy and the development of more accurate laboratory models.Laboratory experiments have uncovered many basic aspects of bacterial physiology and behavior. After the past century of mostly in vitro experiments, we now have detailed knowledge of bacterial behavior in standard laboratory conditions, but only a superficial understanding of bacterial functions and behaviors during human infection. It is well-known that the growth and behavior of bacteria are largely dictated by their environment, but how bacterial physiology differs in laboratory models compared with human infections is not known. To address this question, we compared the transcriptome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa during human infection to that of P. aeruginosa in a variety of laboratory conditions. Several pathways, including the bacterium’s primary quorum sensing system, had significantly lower expression in human infections than in many laboratory conditions. On the other hand, multiple genes known to confer antibiotic resistance had substantially higher expression in human infection than in laboratory conditions, potentially explaining why antibiotic resistance assays in the clinical laboratory frequently underestimate resistance in patients. Using a standard machine learning technique known as support vector machines, we identified a set of genes whose expression reliably distinguished in vitro conditions from human infections. Finally, we used these support vector machines with binary classification to force P. aeruginosa mouse infection transcriptomes to be classified as human or in vitro. Determining what differentiates our current models from clinical infections is important to better understand bacterial infections and will be necessary to create model systems that more accurately capture the biology of infection.
Biological  Quantitative microbiome profiling links gut community variation to microbial load Current sequencing-based analyses of faecal microbiota quantify microbial taxa and metabolic pathways as fractions of the sample sequence library generated by each analysis1,2. Although these relative approaches permit detection of disease-associated microbiome variation, they are limited in their ability to reveal the interplay between microbiota and host health3,4. Comparative analyses of relative microbiome data cannot provide information about the extent or directionality of changes in taxa abundance or metabolic potential5. If microbial load varies substantially between samples, relative profiling will hamper attempts to link microbiome features to quantitative data such as physiological parameters or metabolite concentrations5,6. Saliently, relative approaches ignore the possibility that altered overall microbiota abundance itself could be a key identifier of a disease-associated ecosystem configuration7. To enable genuine characterization of host–microbiota interactions, microbiome research must exchange ratios for counts4,8,9. Here we build a workflow for the quantitative microbiome profiling of faecal material, through parallelization of amplicon sequencing and flow cytometric enumeration of microbial cells. We observe up to tenfold differences in the microbial loads of healthy individuals and relate this variation to enterotype differentiation. We show how microbial abundances underpin both microbiota variation between individuals and covariation with host phenotype. Quantitative profiling bypasses compositionality effects in the reconstruction of gut microbiota interaction networks and reveals that the taxonomic trade-off between Bacteroides and Prevotella is an artefact of relative microbiome analyses. Finally, we identify microbial load as a key driver of observed microbiota alterations in a cohort of patients with Crohn’s disease10, here associated with a low-cell-count Bacteroides enterotype (as defined through relative profiling)11,12.
Biological  Role of colonic microbiota in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis Background: Recent studies have found gut microbiota to be closely associated with onset and perpetuation of UC. Currently, studies about gut microbiota have mainly covered samples collected from the intestinal lumen. However, the luminal flora is only part of the gut microbiota. Studies of the changes in mucosal flora under pathological conditions have been lacking. In this study, we investigated the correlation between the onset of UC and flora changes in different intestinal layers.; Methods: The dextran sulfate sodium(DSS)-induced UC model was established by exposing mice to cycles of DSS. The luminal contents, an inner mucus layer, and outer mucus layer were harvested under sterile conditions. The samples were then analyzed using high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA V3 + V4 amplicons. The colonic microbiota composition and diversity were analyzed and compared using MetaStat, LefSe, multivariate analysis of variance, and spatial statistics.; Results: The DSS-induced UC mouse model was successfully established. The diversity of the microbiota from luminal content, the outer mucus layer, and inner mucus layer were significantly different in both control and UC model groups. The statistically different OTUs belonged to Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae families within the order Clostridiales were mainly localized to the outer mucus layer.; Conclusions: The alterations in flora composition and diversity mainly occurred in the colonic outer mucus layer. The change of flora in the colonic mucus layers is of great significance in the understanding of common features of gut flora in IBD and the understanding of the relationship between gut flora and disease progression.;
Biological  Serotonin and tryptophan metabolites, autoantibodies and gut microbiome in APECED Objective Intestinal autoimmunity with gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction has been shown in patients with autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). Patients lack entero-endocrine (EE) cells and have circulating autoantibodies (Aabs) against critical enzymes in serotonin (5-HT) biosynthesis. Design We sought to determine the serum levels of 5-HT, tryptophan (Trp) metabolites and L-DOPA in 37 Finnish APECED patients and to correlate their abundance with the presence of TPH and AADC Aabs, GI dysfunction and depressive symptoms. We also performed an exploratory analysis of the gut microbiome. Methods Serum 5-HT, L-DOPA and Trp metabolite levels were determined by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). TPH and AADC Aabs were measured by ELISA. Depression was assessed with a structured RBDI questionnaire. The V3–V4 regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene were sequenced for gut microbiome exploration. Results Serum 5-HT levels were significantly decreased (130 ± 131 nmol/L vs 686 ± 233 nmol/L, P < 0.0001) in APECED patients with TPH-1 (±AADC) Aabs compared to controls and patients with only AADC Aabs. Reduced 5-HT levels correlated with constipation. The genus Escherichia/Shigella was overrepresented in the intestinal microbiome. No correlation between serum Trp, 5-HT or l-DOPA levels and the RBDI total score, fatigue or sleep disorders was found. Conclusions This exploratory study found low serum levels of 5-HT to be associated with constipation and the presence of TPH-1 and AADC Aabs, but not with symptoms of depression. Hence, serum 5-HT, TPH1 and AADC Aabs should be determined in APECED patients presenting with GI symptoms.
Biological  Severe Obstructive Sleep Apnea Is Associated with Alterations in the Nasal Microbiome and an Increase in Inflammation Rationale: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with recurrent obstruction, subepithelial edema, and airway inflammation. The resultant inflammation may influence or be influenced by the nasal microbiome.Objectives: To evaluate whether the composition of the nasal microbiota is associated with obstructive sleep apnea and inflammatory biomarkers.Methods: Two large cohorts were used: 1) a discovery cohort of 472 subjects from the WTCSNORE (Seated, Supine and Post-Decongestion Nasal Resistance in World Trade Center Rescue and Recovery Workers) cohort, and 2) a validation cohort of 93 subjects rom the Zaragoza Sleep cohort. Sleep apnea was diagnosed using home sleep tests. Nasal lavages were obtained from cohort subjects to measure: 1) microbiome composition (based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing), and 2) biomarkers for inflammation (inflammatory cells, IL-8, and IL-6). Longitudinal 3-month samples were obtained in the validation cohort, including after continuous positive airway pressure treatment when indicated.Measurements and Main Results: In both cohorts, we identified that: 1) severity of OSA correlated with differences in microbiome diversity and composition; 2) the nasal microbiome of subjects with severe OSA were enriched with Streptococcus, Prevotella, and Veillonella; and 3) the nasal microbiome differences were associated with inflammatory biomarkers. Network analysis identified clusters of cooccurring microbes that defined communities. Several common oral commensals (e.g., Streptococcus, Rothia, Veillonella, and Fusobacterium) correlated with apnea–hypopnea index. Three months of treatment with continuous positive airway pressure did not change the composition of the nasal microbiota.Conclusions: We demonstrate that the presence of an altered microbiome in severe OSA is associated with inflammatory markers. Further experimental approaches to explore causal links are needed.
Biological  SLC39A8 missense variant is associated with Crohn's disease but does not have a major impact on gut microbiome composition in healthy subjects Background Gene-microbiome interactions are important in aetiology and pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease, a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract consisting of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. Scarce studies on gene-microbiome interactions show very little overlap in their results. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that gene-microbiome studies are repeated. We aimed to replicate the association between the SLC39A8 [Thr]391 risk allele and gut microbiome composition in patients with inflammatory bowel disease and healthy controls. Methods We collected faecal samples, peripheral blood and extensive phenotype data from 291 patients with inflammatory bowel disease and 476 healthy controls. Carrier status information was obtained from whole exome sequencing data, generated using the Illumina HiSeq. The gut microbiome composition was determined by tag-sequencing the 16S rRNA gene. Associations between carrier status and disease were tested using the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test. Associations between carriers and gut microbiome composition were determined using principal coordinate analyses, variance explained, alpha diversity and additive general linear models in inflammatory bowel disease, healthy controls and all groups combined. Results Crohn’s disease patients were more often carriers of the missense variant (21/171, 12.3%) than controls (30/476, 6.3%) (OR = 2.1, P = 0.01). We could not identify associations between carrier status and overall gut microbiome composition and microbial richness in all tested groups after correcting for potential confounding factors. We did identify 37 different operational taxonomical units to be associated with carrier status among the tested groups. Two of these 37 were identified before in the discovery study. Conclusions We could confirm the genetic association of the SLC39A8 [Thr]391 risk allele with Crohn’s disease but we could only limited replicate the association in gut microbiome composition. Independent replication of gene-microbiome studies is warranted to identify true biological mechanisms.
Biological  The Airplane Cabin Microbiome Serving over three billion passengers annually, air travel serves as a conduit for infectious disease spread, including emerging infections and pandemics. Over two dozen cases of in-flight transmissions have been documented. To understand these risks, a characterization of the airplane cabin microbiome is necessary. Our study team collected 229 environmental samples on ten transcontinental US flights with subsequent 16S rRNA sequencing. We found that bacterial communities were largely derived from human skin and oral commensals, as well as environmental generalist bacteria. We identified clear signatures for air versus touch surface microbiome, but not for individual types of touch surfaces. We also found large flight-to-flight beta diversity variations with no distinguishing signatures of individual flights, rather a high between-flight diversity for all touch surfaces and particularly for air samples. There was no systematic pattern of microbial community change from pre- to post-flight. Our findings are similar to those of other recent studies of the microbiome of built environments. In summary, the airplane cabin microbiome has immense airplane to airplane variability. The vast majority of airplane-associated microbes are human commensals or non-pathogenic, and the results provide a baseline for non-crisis-level airplane microbiome conditions.
Biological  The changing microbial landscape of Western society: Diet, dwellings and discordance Background The last 50–100 years has been marked by a sharp rise in so-called “Western-diseases” in those countries that have experienced major industrial advances and shifts towards urbanized living. These diseases include obesity, type 2 diabetes, inflammatory bowel diseases, and food allergies in which chronic dysregulation of metabolic and/or immune processes appear to be involved, and are likely a byproduct of new environmental influences on our ancient genome. What we now appreciate is that this genome consists of both human and co-evolved microbial genes of the trillions of microbes residing in our body. Together, host–microbe interactions may be determined by the changing diets and behaviors of the Western lifestyle, influencing the etiopathogenesis of “new-age” diseases. Scope of review This review takes an anthropological approach to the potential interplay of the host and its gut microbiome in the post-industrialization rise in chronic inflammatory and metabolic diseases. The discussion highlights both the changes in diet and the physical environment that have co-occurred with these diseases and the latest evidence demonstrating the role of host–microbe interactions in understanding biological responses to the changing environment. Major conclusions Technological advances that have led to changes in agriculture and engineering have altered our eating and living behaviors in ways never before possible in human history. These changes also have altered the bacterial communities within the human body in ways that are seemingly linked with the rise of many intestinal and systemic metabolic and inflammatory diseases. Insights into the mechanisms of this reciprocal exchange between the environment and the human gut microbiome may offer potential to attenuate the chronic health conditions that derail quality of life. This article is part of a special issue on microbiota.
Biological  The contribution of respiratory microbiome analysis to a treatable traits model of care The composition of the airway microbiome in patients with chronic airway diseases, such as severe asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), bronchiectasis and cystic fibrosis (CF), has the potential to inform a precision model of clinical care. Patients with these conditions share overlapping disease characteristics, including airway inflammation and airflow limitation. The clinical management of chronic respiratory conditions is increasingly moving away from a one-size-fits-all model based on primary diagnosis, towards care targeting individual disease traits, and is particularly useful for subgroups of patients who respond poorly to conventional therapies. Respiratory microbiome analysis is an important potential contributor to such a 'treatable traits' approach, providing insight into both microbial drivers of airways disease, and the selective characteristics of the changing lower airway environment. We explore the potential to integrate respiratory microbiome analysis into a treatable traits model of clinical care and provide a practical guide to the application and clinical interpretation of respiratory microbiome analysis.; © 2018 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.
Biological  The contribution of the gut microbiome to neurodevelopment and neuropsychiatric disorders Bidirectional communication between the gut and brain is well recognized, with data now accruing for a specific role of the gut microbiota in that link, referred to as the microbiome-gut-brain axis. This review will discuss the emerging role of the gut microbiota in brain development and behavior. Animal studies have clearly demonstrated effects of the gut microbiota on gene expression and neurochemical metabolism impacting behavior and performance. Based on these changes, a modulating role of the gut microbiota has been demonstrated for a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders, including depression, anxiety, and movement including Parkinson's, and importantly for the pediatric population autism. Critical developmental windows that influence early behavioral outcomes have been identified that include both the prenatal environment and early postnatal colonization periods. The clearest data regarding the role of the gut microbiota on neurodevelopment and psychiatric disorders is from animal studies; however, human data have begun to emerge, including an association between early colonization patterns and cognition. The importance of understanding the contribution of the gut microbiota to the development and functioning of the nervous system lies in the potential to intervene using novel microbial-based approaches to treating neurologic conditions. While pathways of communication between the gut and brain are well established, the gut microbiome is a new component of this axis. The way in which organisms that live in the gut influence the central nervous system (CNS) and host behavior is likely to be multifactorial in origin. This includes immunologic, endocrine, and metabolic mechanisms, all of which are pathways used for other microbial-host interactions. Germ-free (GF) mice are an important model system for understanding the impact of gut microbes on development and function of the nervous system. Alternative animal model systems have further clarified the role of the gut microbiota, including antibiotic treatment, fecal transplantation, and selective gut colonization with specific microbial organisms. Recently, researchers have started to examine the human host as well. This review will examine the components of the CNS potentially influenced by the gut microbiota, and the mechanisms mediating these effects. Links between gut microbial colonization patterns and host behavior relevant to a pediatric population will be examined, highlighting important developmental windows in utero or early in development.
Biological  The Effect of Lean-Seafood and Non-Seafood Diets on Fecal Metabolites and Gut Microbiome: Results from a Randomized Crossover Intervention Study SCOPE: The impact of dietary protein types on the gut microbiome is scarcely studied. The aim of the present study is therefore to examine the effects of lean-seafood and non-seafood proteins on the gut microbiome composition and activity and elucidate potential associations to cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors. METHODS: A crossover intervention study in which 20 healthy subjects consumed two diets that varied in protein source was conducted. 1 H NMR spectroscopy and 16S rDNA sequencing analyses were applied to characterize fecal metabolites and gut microbiota composition, respectively. RESULTS: A twofold increase in fecal trimethylamine excretion was observed after the lean-seafood diet period. Circulating TAG and the total to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol ratio as well as circulating TMAO levels were each associated with specific gut bacteria. Following the non-seafood diet period, a decreased relative abundance of Clostridium cluster IV and a tendency toward an increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio were found. CONCLUSIONS: Lean-seafood and non-seafood diets differentially modulate the gut microbiome composition and activity. Furthermore, the gut microbiota composition seems to affect circulating TMAO levels and CVD risk factors.
Biological  The effect of maxillary sinus antrostomy size on the sinus microbiome Background The optimal maxillary antrostomy size to surgically treat sinusitis is not well known. In this study, we examined clinical metrics of disease severity and symptom scores, measured secreted inflammatory markers, and characterized the sinus microbiome to determine if there were significant differences in outcome between different maxillary ostial sizes. Methods Prospective randomized, single-blinded clinical trial enrolling 12 individuals diagnosed with recurrent acute or chronic rhinosinusitis. Each patient was blinded and randomized to receive minimal maxillary ostial dilation via balloon sinuplasty on 1 side vs a mega-antrostomy on the contralateral side. Data collected included symptom scores (20-item Sino-Nasal Outcome Test [SNOT-20]), endoscopy, and radiologic Lund-Mackay scores. During surgery and at their postoperative visit swabs were obtained from each maxillary sinus, and 16S DNA and inflammatory cytokine levels analyzed. The use of each patient as their own control allowed us to minimize confounding variables. Results There was statistically significant improvement in SNOT-20 symptom scores postoperatively in all patients. There were no significant differences between maxillary ostial size in postoperative endoscopy scores, cytokine profile, or bacterial burden. There were statistically significant differences in relative postoperative abundance of Staphylococcus, Lactococcus, and Cyanobacteria between the mega-antrostomy and mini-antrostomy. Conclusions The method used in surgical maxillary antrostomies had no effect on endoscopy scores or cytokine profiles. Microbiome analysis determined significant differences between the different antrostomy sizes in postoperative Staphylococcus, Lactococcus, and Cyanobacteria abundance. The clinical significance of these changes in the sinus microbiome are not known but may be a result of increased access to postoperative sinonasal irrigations.
Biological  The effects of metabolic syndrome, obesity, and the gut microbiome on load-induced osteoarthritis Metabolic syndrome is characterized by obesity, hyperglycemia, hypertension, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. Metabolic syndrome is associated with osteoarthritis (OA), but it is unclear if the association is attributable to increased mechanical loading on joints caused by obesity or other aspects of metabolic syndrome. Here we examined the effects of altered metabolism, obesity, and the gut microbiome on load-induced OA. Design Cartilage damage was induced through cyclic compressive loading in four groups of adult male mice: Toll-like receptor-5 deficient (TLR5KO) mice that develop metabolic syndrome due to alterations in the gut microbiome, TLR5KO mice submitted to chronic antibiotics to prevent metabolic syndrome (TLR5KOΔMicrobiota), C57BL/6J mice fed a high fat diet to cause obesity (HFD), and untreated C57BL/6J mice (WT). Loading was applied for 2 weeks (n = 10–11/group) or 6 weeks (n = 10–11/group). Results After 2 weeks of loading, cartilage damage (OARSI score) was not different among groups. After 6 weeks of loading, HFD mice had increased load-induced cartilage damage, while TLR5KO mice had cartilage damage comparable to WT mice. TLR5KOΔMicrobiota mice had less cartilage damage than other groups. HFD mice had elevated serum inflammatory markers. Each group had a distinct gut microbiome composition. Conclusions Severe obesity increased load-induced cartilage damage, while milder changes in adiposity/metabolic syndrome seen in TLR5KO mice did not. Furthermore, the effects of systemic inflammation/obesity on cartilage damage depend on the duration of mechanical loading. Lastly, reduced cartilage damage in the TLR5KOΔMicrobiota mice suggests that the gut microbiome may influence cartilage pathology.
Biological  The Gut Microbiome as a Target for IBD Treatment: Are We There Yet? PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review aims to highlight recent research on the gut microbiome in IBD and the application of microbiome-modulating therapies for the treatment of IBD including the use of the microbiome as an indicator for disease severity and treatment response. RECENT FINDINGS: Despite the high number of gut microbiome studies and emerging evidence supporting the gut microbiome's involvement in disease pathogenesis, no single microorganism has been identified as a pathogenic agent in IBD. Retrospective studies and meta-analyses on antibiotic use in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease and long-term outcomes are conflicting. Similarly, the use of probiotics for the treatment of IBD remains inconclusive; however, some encouraging results are emerging as microbial concoctions are optimized to include beneficial bacterial strains. Fecal microbial transplantation (FMT) is currently emerging as one of the more promising microbiome-modulating IBD therapies. FMT studies in ulcerative colitis have shown improved remission rates compared to placebo; however, relatively small study sample sizes and varied treatment methods, limit definitive conclusions. With clear evidence of an IBD gut dysbiosis, novel therapies to treat and prevent disease relapse will undoubtedly require a microbiome-modulating approach. The complexity and variability of IBD disease pathogenesis (disease phenotype, gut microbiome, host genetic susceptibility, and environmental factors) will likely require a personalized and multidimensional treatment approach where microbiome-modulating therapy is coupled with other therapies to target other IBD disease components.
Biological  The gut microbiome correlates with conspecific aggression in a small population of rescued dogs (Canis familiaris) Aggression is a serious behavioral disorder in domestic dogs that endangers both dogs and humans. The underlying causes of canine aggression are poorly resolved and require illumination to ensure effective therapy. Recent research links the compositional diversity of the gut microbiome to behavioral and psychological regulation in other mammals, such as mice and humans. Given these observations, we hypothesized that the composition of the canine gut microbiome could associate with aggression. We analyzed fecal microbiome samples collected from a small population of pit bull type dogs seized from a dogfighting organization. This population included 21 dogs that displayed conspecific aggressive behaviors and 10 that did not. Beta-diversity analyses support an association between gut microbiome structure and dog aggression. Additionally, we used a phylogenetic approach to resolve specific clades of gut bacteria that stratify aggressive and non-aggressive dogs, including clades within Lactobacillus, Dorea, Blautia, Turicibacter, and Bacteroides. Several of these taxa have been implicated in modulating mammalian behavior as well as gastrointestinal disease states. Although sample size limits this study, our findings indicate that gut microorganisms are linked to dog aggression and point to an aggression-associated physiological state that interacts with the gut microbiome. These results also indicate that the gut microbiome may be useful for diagnosing aggressive behaviors prior to their manifestation and potentially discerning cryptic etiologies of aggression.
Biological  The Gut Microbiome in Adult and Pediatric Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders The importance of gut microbiota in gastrointestinal (GI) physiology was well described, but our ability to study gut microbial ecosystems in their entirety was limited by culture-based methods prior to the sequencing revolution. The advent of high-throughput sequencing opened new avenues, allowing us to study gut microbial communities as an aggregate, independent of our ability to culture individual microbes. Early studies focused on association of changes in gut microbiota with different disease states, which was necessary to identify a potential role for microbes and generate novel hypotheses. Over the past few years the field has moved beyond associations to better understand the mechanistic implications of the microbiome in the pathophysiology of complex diseases. This movement also has resulted in a shift in our focus toward therapeutic strategies, which rely on better understanding the mediators of gut microbiota-host cross-talk. It is not surprising the gut microbiome has been implicated in the pathogenesis of functional gastrointestinal disorders given its role in modulating physiological processes such as immune development, GI motility and secretion, epithelial barrier integrity, and brain-gut communication. In this review, we focus on the current state of knowledge and future directions in microbiome research as it pertains to functional gastrointestinal disorders. We summarize the factors that help shape the gut microbiome in human beings. We discuss data from animal models and human studies to highlight existing paradigms regarding the mechanisms underlying microbiota-mediated alterations in physiological processes and their relevance in human interventions. While translation of microbiome science is still in its infancy, the outlook is optimistic and we are advancing in the right direction toward precise mechanism-based microbiota therapies.; Copyright © 2019 AGA Institute. 
Biological  The gut microbiome in anorexia nervosa: relevance for nutritional rehabilitation Rapidly accumulating evidence supports the important role of gut microbiome in the regulation of mood, behaviour, appetite, gastrointestinal symptomology, and nutrient metabolism. These are all core features frequently altered in individuals with anorexia nervosa (AN). Current treatment recommendations for AN support the use of high-calorie diets as an essential part of nutritional rehabilitation, commonly achieved by elevating the fat content of the diet. However, in contrast to this approach, there is accumulating evidence suggesting the importance of balanced, high-fibre diets on the gut microbiome. Studies have demonstrated profound differences in the microbial composition of underweight people with AN and those of normal- or overweight individuals. Specific alterations vary widely between studies. It is thus far unclear to what extent the observed differences are brought on by iatrogenic effects of nutritional rehabilitation or the disorder itself. To date, only two studies have investigated the changes in the intestinal microbiota during nutritional rehabilitation and corresponding weight restoration. These studies suggest that the gut microbiome of AN patients was different to healthy controls both prior and following nutritional rehabilitation, though it is noted that these states were associated with lower and higher nutritional intakes, respectively. There is a clear need for further investigation regarding the effects of nutritional rehabilitation on the gut microbiome. Such research would provide insights into the potential role of gut microbiome in modulating the pathophysiology of AN and inform future treatment strategies.
Biological  The Gut–Brain Axis and the Microbiome: Mechanisms and Clinical Implications Background & Aims Based largely on results from preclinical studies, the concept of a brain gut microbiome axis has been established, mediating bidirectional communication between the gut, its microbiome, and the nervous system. Limited data obtained in human beings suggest that alterations in these interactions may play a role in several brain gut disorders. Methods We reviewed the preclinical and clinical literature related to the topic of brain gut microbiome interactions. Results Well-characterized bidirectional communication channels, involving neural, endocrine, and inflammatory mechanisms, exist between the gut and the brain. Communication through these channels may be modulated by variations in the permeability of the intestinal wall and the blood-brain barrier. Brain gut microbiome interactions are programmed during the first 3 years of life, including the prenatal period, but can be modulated by diet, medications, and stress throughout life. Based on correlational studies, alterations in these interactions have been implicated in the regulation of food intake, obesity, and in irritable bowel syndrome, even though causality remains to be established. Conclusions Targets within the brain gut microbiome axis have the potential to become targets for novel drug development for brain gut disorders.
Biological  The Health Advantage of a Vegan Diet: Exploring the Gut Microbiota Connection This review examines whether there is evidence that a strict vegan diet confers health advantages beyond that of a vegetarian diet or overall healthy eating. Few studies include vegan subjects as a distinct experimental group, yet when vegan diets are directly compared to vegetarian and omnivorous diets, a pattern of protective health benefits emerges. The relatively recent inclusion of vegan diets in studies of gut microbiota and health allows us the opportunity to assess whether the vegan gut microbiota is distinct, and whether the health advantages characteristic of a vegan diet may be partially explained by the associated microbiota profile. The relationship between diet and the intestinal microbial profile appears to follow a continuum, with vegans displaying a gut microbiota most distinct from that of omnivores, but not always significantly different from that of vegetarians. The vegan gut profile appears to be unique in several characteristics, including a reduced abundance of pathobionts and a greater abundance of protective species. Reduced levels of inflammation may be the key feature linking the vegan gut microbiota with protective health effects. However, it is still unclear whether a therapeutic vegan diet can be prescribed to alter the gut microflora for long-term health benefits.
Biological  The Human Mesenteric Lymph Node Microbiome Differentiates Between Crohn’s Disease and Ulcerative Colitis Background and Aims Mesenteric lymph nodes are sites in which translocated bacteria incite and progress immunological responses. For this reason, understanding the microbiome of mesenteric lymph nodes in inflammatory bowel disease is important. The bacterial profile of Crohn’s disease mesenteric lymph nodes has been analysed using culture-independent methods in only one previous study. This study aimed to investigate the mesenteric lymph node microbiota from both Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis patients. Methods Mesenteric lymph nodes were collected from Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis patients undergoing resection. Total DNA was extracted from mesenteric lymph nodes and assessed for the presence of bacterial DNA [16S]. All work was completed in a sterile environment using aseptic techniques. Samples positive for 16S DNA underwent next-generation sequencing, and the identity of bacterial phyla and species were determined. Results Crohn’s disease mesenteric lymph nodes had a distinctly different microbial profile to that observed in ulcerative colitis. The relative abundance of Firmicutes was greater in nodes from ulcerative colitis patients, whereas Proteobacteria were more abundant in Crohn’s disease. Although species diversity was reduced in the mesenteric lymph nodes of patients with Crohn’s disease, these lymph nodes contained greater numbers of less dominant phyla, mainly Fusobacteria. Conclusion This study confirms that there are distinct differences between the Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis mesenteric lymph node microbiomes. Such microbial differences could aid in the diagnosis of Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis, particularly in cases of indeterminate colitis at time of resection, or help explain their mechanisms of development and progression.
Biological  The Human Microbiome: Our Second Genome The human genome has been referred to as the blueprint of human biology. In this review we consider an essential but largely ignored overlay to that blueprint, the human microbiome, which is composed of those microbes that live in and on our bodies. The human microbiome is a source of genetic diversity, a modifier of disease, an essential component of immunity, and a functional entity that influences metabolism and modulates drug interactions. Characterization and analysis of the human microbiome have been greatly catalyzed by advances in genomic technologies. We discuss how these technologies have shaped this emerging field of study and advanced our understanding of the human microbiome. We also identify future challenges, many of which are common to human genetic studies, and predict that in the future, analyzing genetic variation and risk of human disease will sometimes necessitate the integration of human and microbial genomic data sets.
Biological  The human milk microbiome changes over lactation and is shaped by maternal weight and mode of delivery ABSTRACT Background: Breast milk is recognized as the most important postpartum element in metabolic and immunologic programming of health of neonates. The factors influencing the milk microbiome and the potential impact of microbes on infant health have not yet been uncovered. Objective: Our objective was to identify pre- and postnatal factors that can potentially influence the bacterial communities inhabiting human milk. Design: We characterized the milk microbial community at 3 different time points by pyrosequencing and quantitative polymerase chain reaction in mothers (n = 18) who varied in BMI, weight gain, and mode of delivery. Results: We found that the human milk microbiome changes over lactation. Weisella, Leuconostoc, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, and Lactococcus were predominant in colostrum samples, whereas in 1- and 6-mo milk samples the typical inhabitants of the oral cavity (eg, Veillonella, Leptotrichia, and Prevotella) increased significantly. Milk from obese mothers tended to contain a different and less diverse bacterial community compared with milk from normal-weight mothers. Milk samples from elective but not from nonelective mothers who underwent cesarean delivery contained a different bacterial community than did milk samples from individuals giving birth by vaginal delivery, suggesting that it is not the operation per se but rather the absence of physiological stress or hormonal signals that could influence the microbial transmission process to milk. Conclusions: Our results indicate that milk bacteria are not contaminants and suggest that the milk microbiome is influenced by several factors that significantly skew its composition. Because bacteria present in breast milk are among the very first microbes entering the human body, our data emphasize the necessity to understand the biological role that the milk microbiome could potentially play for human health.
Biological  The infant microbiome development: mom matters The infant microbiome plays an essential role in human health and its assembly is determined by maternal–offspring exchanges of microbiota. This process is affected by several practices, including Cesarean section (C-section), perinatal antibiotics, and formula feeding, that have been linked to increased risks of metabolic and immune diseases. Here we review recent knowledge about the impacts on infant microbiome assembly, discuss preventive and restorative strategies to ameliorate the effects of these impacts, and highlight where research is needed to advance this field and improve the health of future generations.
Biological  The lung and gut microbiome: what has to be taken into consideration for cystic fibrosis? The 15th European Cystic Fibrosis Society (ECFS) Basic Science pre-conference Symposium focused on the topic of the microbiome, asking the question "The lung and gut microbiome: what has to be considered for cystic fibrosis (CF)?" This review gives an overview of the main points raised during the symposium, which dealt with the technical considerations, pathophysiology and clinical implications of the microbiome in CF.
Biological  The maternal vaginal microbiome partially mediates the effects of prenatal stress on offspring gut and hypothalamus Early prenatal stress disrupts maternal-to-offspring microbiota transmission and has lasting effects on metabolism, physiology, cognition, and behavior in male mice. Here we show that transplantation of maternal vaginal microbiota from stressed dams into naive pups delivered by cesarean section had effects that partly resembled those seen in prenatally stressed males. However, transplantation of control maternal vaginal microbiota into prenatally stressed pups delivered by cesarean section did not rescue the prenatal-stress phenotype. Prenatal stress was associated with alterations in the fetal intestinal transcriptome and niche, as well as with changes in the adult gut that were altered by additional stress exposure in adulthood. Further, maternal vaginal transfer also partially mediated the effects of prenatal stress on hypothalamic gene expression, as observed after chronic stress in adulthood. These findings suggest that the maternal vaginal microbiota contribute to the lasting effects of prenatal stress on gut and hypothalamus in male mice.
Biological  The Microbiome and Genitourinary Cancer: A Collaborative Review The recent discovery of the existence of a human genitourinary microbiome has led to the investigation of its role in mediating the pathogenesis of genitourinary malignancies, including bladder, kidney, and prostate cancers. Furthermore, although it is largely recognized that members of the gastrointestinal microbiota are actively involved in drug metabolism, new studies demonstrate additional roles and the potential necessity of the gastrointestinal microbiota in dictating cancer treatment response. Objective To summarize the current evidence of a mechanistic role for the genitourinary and gastrointestinal microbiome in genitourinary cancer initiation and treatment response. Evidence acquisition We conducted a literature search up to October 2018. Search terms included microbiome, microbiota, urinary microbiome, bladder cancer, urothelial carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, kidney cancer, testicular cancer, and prostate cancer. Evidence synthesis There is preliminary evidence to implicate the members of the genitourinary microbiota as causative factors or cofactors in genitourinary malignancy. Likewise, the current evidence for gastrointestinal microbes in dictating cancer treatment response is mainly correlative; however, we provide examples where therapeutic agents used for the treatment of genitourinary cancers are affected by the human-associated microbiota, or vice versa. Clinical trials, such as fecal microbiota transplant to increase the efficacy of immunotherapy, are currently underway. Conclusions The role of the microbiome in genitourinary cancer is an emerging field that merits further studies. Translating microbiome research into clinical action will require incorporation of microbiome surveillance into ongoing and future clinical trials as well as expansion of studies to include metagenomic sequencing and metabolomics. Patient summary This review covers recent evidence that microbial populations that reside in the genitourinary tract—and were previously not known to exist—may influence the development of genitourinary malignancies including bladder, kidney, and prostate cancers. Furthermore, microbial populations that exist at sites outside of the genitourinary tract, such as those that reside in our gut, may influence cancer development and/or treatment response.
Biological  The microbiome beyond the horizon of ecological and evolutionary theory The ecological and evolutionary study of community formation, diversity, and stability is rooted in general theory and reinforced by decades of system-specific empirical work. Deploying these ideas to study the assembly, complexity, and dynamics of microbial communities living in and on eukaryotes has proved seductive, but challenging. The success of this research endeavour depends on our capacity to observe and characterize the distributions, abundances, and functional traits of microbiota, representing an array of technical and analytical challenges. Furthermore, a number of unique characteristics of microbial species, such as horizontal gene transfer, the production of public goods, toxin and antibiotic production, rapid evolution, and feedbacks between the microbiome and its host, are not easily accommodated by current ecological and evolutionary theory. Here we highlight potential pitfalls in the application of existing theoretical tools without careful consideration of the unique complexities of the microbiome, focusing particularly on the issue of human health, and anchoring our discussion in existing empirical evidence.
Biological  The microbiome in patients with atopic dermatitis As an interface with the environment, the skin is a complex ecosystem colonized by many microorganisms that coexist in an established balance. The cutaneous microbiome inhibits colonization with pathogens, such as Staphylococcus aureus, and is a crucial component for function of the epidermal barrier. Moreover, crosstalk between commensals and the immune system is now recognized because microorganisms can modulate both innate and adaptive immune responses. Host-commensal interactions also have an effect on the developing immune system in infants and, subsequently, the occurrence of diseases, such as asthma and atopic dermatitis (AD). Later in life, the cutaneous microbiome contributes to the development and course of skin disease. Accordingly, in patients with AD, a decrease in microbiome diversity correlates with disease severity and increased colonization with pathogenic bacteria, such as S aureus. Early clinical studies suggest that topical application of commensal organisms (eg, Staphylococcus hominis or Roseomonas mucosa) reduces AD severity, which supports an important role for commensals in decreasing S aureus colonization in patients with AD. Advancing knowledge of the cutaneous microbiome and its function in modulating the course of skin disorders, such as AD, might result in novel therapeutic strategies.
Biological  The Microbiome of an Active Meat Curing Brine Traditional food products are important to our culture and heritage, and to the continued success of the food industry. Many of the production processes associated with these products have not been subjected to an in-depth microbial compositional analysis. The traditional process of curing meat, both preserves a natural protein source, as well as increasing its organoleptic qualities. One of the most important salting processes is known as Wiltshire curing. The Wiltshire process involves injecting pork with a curing solution and immersing the meat into microbial-rich brine which promotes the development of the distinct organoleptic characteristics. The important microbial component of Wiltshire brine has not been extensively characterized. We analyzed the key microbial component of Wiltshire brine by performing microbiome analysis using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies. This analysis identified the genera, Marinilactibacillus, Carnobacterium, Leuconostoc and Vibrio as the core microflora present in Wiltshire curing brine. The important food industrial applications of these bacteria were also assessed. The bacterial diversity of the brine was investigated, and the community composition of the brine was demonstrated to change over time. New knowledge on the characterization of key microbiota associated with a productive Wiltshire brine is an important development linked to promoting enhanced quality and safety of meat processing in the food industry.
Biological  The microbiome of Escherichia coli and culture-negative nonsevere clinical mastitis: Characterization and associations with linear score and milk production Culture-negative and Escherichia coli cases are uncommonly treated in pathogen-based protocols for nonsevere mastitis. High-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing might reveal the presence of other pathogens and can provide information on microbial diversity. The objective was to explore the milk microbiome at the time of the mastitis event (enrollment) and its association with survival in the herd, milk production, and postevent linear score (LS) for cows with clinical mastitis characterized as negative or E. coli by culture. Fifty E. coli-positive and 35 culture-negative samples from cases were enrolled. No cases were treated with antimicrobials. All E. coli-positive quarters were characterized as transient; microbiological culture of samples taken 15 d postmastitis were negative for this organism. However, a difference in α-diversity (Shannon index) was present between enrollment and follow-up samples (3.8 vs. 5.1). When α-diversity was explored for enrollment E. coli samples, no relationship was observed between the Shannon indices of these samples and postmastitis LS. Alpha-diversity of the enrollment samples was lower for E. coli-positive cows that subsequently had greater losses in milk production. This difference was explained by a greater relative abundance of the family Enterobacteriaceae (67.8 vs. 38.4%) for cows that dropped in production. Analysis of composition of the microbiome identified one phylum, Proteobacteria, that differed between E. coli-positive cows that dropped in production and those that did not. Evaluation of β -diversity found no statistical relationship between postmastitis LS and the microbiome. When evaluating α- and β-diversities and composition of the microbiomes for culture-negative quarters, no associations were found for milk production changes and postmastitis LS. Three cows did not remain in the herd, limiting the ability to analyze survival. The findings suggest that a contributing factor to negative outcomes in E. coli-positive cows is relative abundance of this pathogen, and that no single or collective group of bacterial families is associated with milk production changes or postmastitis LS in culture-negative quarters. Although additional studies should be performed, the absence of associations between outcomes explored and microbial profiles in this study suggests that we are not missing opportunities by not treating nonsevere E. coli or culture-negative mastitis cases.;
Biological  The microbiome of the built environment and mental health The microbiome of the built environment (MoBE) is a relatively new area of study. While some knowledge has been gained regarding impacts of the MoBE on the human microbiome and disease vulnerability, there is little knowledge of the impacts of the MoBE on mental health. Depending on the specific microbial species involved, the transfer of microorganisms from the built environment to occupant’s cutaneous or mucosal membranes has the potential to increase or disrupt immunoregulation and/or exaggerate or suppress inflammation. Preclinical evidence highlighting the influence of the microbiota on systemic inflammation supports the assertion that microorganisms, including those originating from the built environment, have the potential to either increase or decrease the risk of inflammation-induced psychiatric conditions and their symptom severity. With advanced understanding of both the ecology of the built environment, and its influence on the human microbiome, it may be possible to develop bioinformed strategies for management of the built environment to promote mental health. Here we present a brief summary of microbiome research in both areas and highlight two interdependencies including the following: (1) effects of the MoBE on the human microbiome and (2) potential opportunities for manipulation of the MoBE in order to improve mental health. In addition, we propose future research directions including strategies for assessment of changes in the microbiome of common areas of built environments shared by multiple human occupants, and associated cohort-level changes in the mental health of those who spend time in the buildings. Overall, our understanding of the fields of both the MoBE and influence of host-associated microorganisms on mental health are advancing at a rapid pace and, if linked, could offer considerable benefit to health and wellness.
Biological  The microbiome regulates amygdala-dependent fear recall The amygdala is a key brain region that is critically involved in the processing and expression of anxiety and fear-related signals. In parallel, a growing number of preclinical and human studies have implicated the microbiome–gut–brain in regulating anxiety and stress-related responses. However, the role of the microbiome in fear-related behaviours is unclear. To this end we investigated the importance of the host microbiome on amygdala-dependent behavioural readouts using the cued fear conditioning paradigm. We also assessed changes in neuronal transcription and post-transcriptional regulation in the amygdala of naive and stimulated germfree (GF) mice, using a genome-wide transcriptome profiling approach. Our results reveal that GF mice display reduced freezing during the cued memory retention test. Moreover, we demonstrate that under baseline conditions, GF mice display altered transcriptional profile with a marked increase in immediate-early genes (for example, Fos, Egr2, Fosb, Arc) as well as genes implicated in neural activity, synaptic transmission and nervous system development. We also found a predicted interaction between mRNA and specific microRNAs that are differentially regulated in GF mice. Interestingly, colonized GF mice (ex-GF) were behaviourally comparable to conventionally raised (CON) mice. Together, our data demonstrates a unique transcriptional response in GF animals, likely because of already elevated levels of immediate-early gene expression and the potentially underlying neuronal hyperactivity that in turn primes the amygdala for a different transcriptional response. Thus, we demonstrate for what is to our knowledge the first time that the presence of the host microbiome is crucial for the appropriate behavioural response during amygdala-dependent memory retention.
Biological  The Neonatal Microbiome and Its Partial Role in Mediating the Association between Birth by Cesarean Section and Adverse Pediatric Outcomes Background: Cesarean sections (CS) are among the most commonly performed surgical procedures in the world. Epidemiologic data has associated delivery by CS with an increased risk of certain adverse health outcomes in children, such as asthma and obesity. Objective: To explore what is known about the effect of mode of delivery on the development of the infant microbiome and discuss the potentially mediating role of CS-related microbial dysbiosis in the development of adverse pediatric health outcomes. Recommendations for future inquiry are also provided. Methods: This study provides a narrative overview of the literature synthesizing the findings of literature retrieved from searches of PubMed and other computerized databases and authoritative texts. Results: Emerging evidence suggests that mode of delivery is involved in the development of the neonatal microbiome and may partially explain pediatric health outcomes associated with birth by CS. Specifically, the gut microbiome of vaginally delivered infants more closely resembles their mothers’ vaginal microbiome and thus more commonly consists of potentially beneficial microbiota such as Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, and Bacteroides. Conversely, the microbiome of infants born via CS shows an increased prevalence of either skin flora or potentially pathogenic microbial communities such as Klebsiella, Enterococcus, and Clostridium. Conclusions: Mode of delivery plays an important role in the development of the postnatal microbiome but likely tells only part of the story. More comprehensive investigations into all the pre- and perinatal factors that have the potential to contribute to the neonatal microbiome are warranted.
Biological  The Ocular Microbiome: Molecular Characterisation of a Unique and Low Microbial Environment AIM: The ocular surface is continually exposed to bacteria from the environment and traditional culture-based microbiological studies have isolated a low diversity of microorganisms from this region. The use of culture-independent methods to define the ocular microbiome, primarily involving 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing studies, have shown that the microbial communities present on the ocular surface have a greater diversity than previously reported. METHOD: A review of the literature on ocular microbiome research in health and disease. RESULTS: Molecular techniques have been used to investigate the effect of contact lens wear and disease on the microbiota of the ocular surface and eyelids and the immunoregulatory role of the ocular surface microbiota. Studies have shown that compositional changes in the microbiota occur in ocular surface disorders such as blepharitis, trachoma and dry eye and also suggest a role of the ocular and non-ocular microbiome in retinal disease including age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma, uveitis and diabetic retinopathy. However, ocular microbiome studies need to recognise the potential for contamination to impact findings and carefully control each stage of the experimental procedure and to utilise statistical methods to identify contamination signals. CONCLUSION: The healthy ocular surface is characterised by a relatively stable, comparatively low diversity microbiome with recent findings that the bacteria of the ocular surface appear to have a role in maintaining homeostasis by modulating immune function.
Biological  The Road Not Taken: The Rumen Microbiome, Functional Groups, and Community States The rumen ecosystem represents a classic example of host–microbiome symbiosis. In this obligatory relationship, the host feeds on plant fibers that can only be degraded through a set of complex metabolic cascades, exclusively encoded in rumen-associated microbes. These various metabolic pathways are distributed across a multitude of microbial populations. Application of basic ecological principles to this ecosystem can contribute to profound understanding of the rules that shape it. Here, we discuss recent studies by examining the mapping between host attributes, rumen ecosystem composition, and functionality to propose simple, yet powerful concepts to guide the interpretation of microbiome data and enable a better understanding of how the system responds to perturbations.
Biological  The salivary microbiome of diabetic and non-diabetic adults with periodontal disease BACKGROUND: A comparison of the salivary microbiome of non-diabetic and diabetic cohorts having periodontal health, gingivitis and periodontitis could reveal microbial signatures unique to each group that will increase understanding of the role of oral microbiota in the pathogenesis of disease, and assist with diagnosis and risk assessment for both periodontal disease and diabetes. METHODS: A group of individuals diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (T2D) was compared with a group without T2D. For both the diabetic and non-diabetic cohorts, three subgroups were established: periodontal health, gingivitis, and periodontitis. Salivary DNA was extracted (n = 146), polymerase chain reaction was performed to amplify 16S rRNA hypervariable region V3-V4, and constructed libraries were sequenced and subjected to bioinformatic and statistical analyses. RESULTS: Microbiome analysis resulted in 88 different genus level operational taxonomic units (OTUs) for differential abundance testing. Results were largely described by two trends. Trend 1 showed OTUs that increased in abundance with increasing periodontal disease, and in diabetics relative to non-diabetics. Trend 1 OTUs comprised a mix of primarily anaerobic commensals and potential periodontopathogens. Trend 2 was driven primarily by genera that decreased in abundance in those with diabetes relative to those without diabetes, which included other anaerobes associated with periodontal disease. Overall, oral microbial diversity decreased in diabetics and increased with progression of periodontal disease compared with periodontally healthy controls. CONCLUSION: Although select microbiota increased in both diabetes and periodontal disease progression, these genera decreased in co-existing diabetes and periodontal disease. These findings suggest that the genera abundance continues to change with additional stress imposed by co-existing conditions.
Biological  The social network of microorganisms - how auxotrophies shape complex communities. Microorganisms engage in complex interactions with other organisms and their environment. Recent studies have shown that these interactions are not limited to the exchange of electron donors. Most microorganisms are auxotrophs, thus relying on external nutrients for growth, including the exchange of amino acids and vitamins. Currently, we lack a deeper understanding of auxotrophies in microorganisms and how nutrient requirements differ between different strains and different environments. In this Opinion article, we describe how the study of auxotrophies and nutrient requirements among members of complex communities will enable new insights into community composition and assembly. Understanding this complex network over space and time is crucial for developing strategies to interrogate and shape microbial communities.
Biological  The vermiform appendix: an immunological organ sustaining a microbiome inoculum The hominoid vermiform appendix has been characterized as a diverticulum of the caecum and describes an entity at the juxtaposition of the colon in the confluence of tanias. The independent development of the lymphoid follicle centres of the appendix is progressed at birth in the presence of the intestinal commensal microbiome, an obligatory prompt for the diversification of intestinal and extra-intestinal mucosal immunological tissue. In the vermiform appendix, this activity is centred on further developing the inventory of primary antibodies and the maturation of T- and B-lymphocyte cells in the follicles within the lymphoid tissue. Furthermore, the columnar epithelia, enterocytes and goblet cells comprise the complement of cells that occupy the lamina propria and muscularis mucosae of the vermiform appendix’s mucosa, while macrophages and an abundance of immunoglobulin A and immunoglobulin G generating plasma cells seed the lamina propria. Intraepithelial immune cells consisting predominantly of specific CD8+ T regulatory lymphocytes occupy sites in the appendix analogous to those present in the intestinal epithelia of the caecal colon. The complement of bacterial genera concealed in the vermiform appendix is posited extant as a biofilm inoculum of the intestinal commensal microbiome. This facilitates re-inoculation of the proximal colon and to a lesser degree the terminal ilium post an intestinal perturbation such as occurs with daily lifestyle stressors, dietary choices and the short-term administration of antibiotics rather than an infectious fulminant colitis. A plausible appreciation results of the importance of multiple immunological aspects of a healthy vermiform appendix and the provision of a commensal biofilm to the gut that repairs a dysbiotic microbiome contributing to balancing intestinal pro- and anti-inflammatory activity for maintaining homeostasis in the gut. Since the composition of the gut microbiome can vary over the short-term and long-term, it is plausible that the appendix inoculum may be instrumental in maintaining the intestinal microbiome.
Biological  Tongue coating microbiome data distinguish patients with pancreatic head cancer from healthy controls Background: The microbiota plays a critical role in the process of human carcinogenesis. Pancreatic head carcinoma (PHC)-associated tongue coating microbiome dysbiosis has not yet been clearly defined.Objective: Our aim is to reveal the bacterial composition shifts in the microbiota of the tongue coat of PHC patients.Design: The tongue coating microbiota was analyzed in 30 PHC patients and 25 healthy controls using 16S rRNA gene sequencing technology.Results: The microbiome diversity of the tongue coat in PHC patients was significantly increased, as shown by the Shannon, Simpson, inverse Simpson, Obs and incidence-based coverage estimators. Principal component analysis revealed that PHC patients were colonized by remarkably different tongue coating microbiota than healthy controls and liver cancer patients. Linear discriminant analysis effect size revealed that Leptotrichia, Fusobacterium,Rothia, Actinomyces, Corynebacterium, Atopobium, Peptostreptococcus, Catonella, Oribacterium, Filifactor, Campylobacter, Moraxella and Tannerella were overrepresented in the tongue coating of PHC patients, and Haemophilus, Porphyromonas and Paraprevotella were enriched in the tongue coating microbiota of healthy controls. Strikingly, Haemophilus, Porphyromonas, Leptotrichia and Fusobacterium could distinguish PHC patients from healthy subjects, and Streptococcus and SR1 could distinguish PHC patients from liver cancer patients. Conclusions: These findings identified the microbiota dysbiosis of the tongue coat in PHC patients, and provide insight into the association between the human microbiome and pancreatic cancer.
Biological  Whole grain-rich diet reduces body weight and systemic low-grade inflammation without inducing major changes of the gut microbiome: a randomised cross-over trial Objective To investigate whether a whole grain diet alters the gut microbiome and insulin sensitivity, as well as biomarkers of metabolic health and gut functionality.= Design 60 Danish adults at risk of developing metabolic syndrome were included in a randomised cross-over trial with two 8-week dietary intervention periods comprising whole grain diet and refined grain diet, separated by a washout period of ≥6 weeks. The response to the interventions on the gut microbiome composition and insulin sensitivity as well on measures of glucose and lipid metabolism, gut functionality, inflammatory markers, anthropometry and urine metabolomics were assessed.= Results 50 participants completed both periods with a whole grain intake of 179±50 g/day and 13±10 g/day in the whole grain and refined grain period, respectively. Compliance was confirmed by a difference in plasma alkylresorcinols (p<0.0001). Compared with refined grain, whole grain did not significantly alter glucose homeostasis and did not induce major changes in the faecal microbiome. Also, breath hydrogen levels, plasma short-chain fatty acids, intestinal integrity and intestinal transit time were not affected. The whole grain diet did, however, compared with the refined grain diet, decrease body weight (p<0.0001), serum inflammatory markers, interleukin (IL)-6 (p=0.009) and C-reactive protein (p=0.003). The reduction in body weight was consistent with a reduction in energy intake, and IL-6 reduction was associated with the amount of whole grain consumed, in particular with intake of rye.= Conclusion Compared with refined grain diet, whole grain diet did not alter insulin sensitivity and gut microbiome but reduced body weight and systemic low-grade inflammation.
Psychological   A gut feeling: Microbiome-brain-immune interactions modulate social and affective behaviors The expression of a wide range of social and affective behaviors, including aggression and investigation, as well as anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors, involves interactions among many different physiological systems, including the neuroendocrine and immune systems. Recent work suggests that the gut microbiome may also play a critical role in modulating behavior and likely functions as an important integrator across physiological systems. Microbes within the gut may communicate with the brain via both neural and humoral pathways, providing numerous avenues of research in the area of the gut-brain axis. We are now just beginning to understand the intricate relationships among the brain, microbiome, and immune system and how they work in concert to influence behavior. The effects of different forms of experience (e.g., changes in diet, immune challenge, and psychological stress) on the brain, gut microbiome, and the immune system have often been studied independently. Though because these systems do not work in isolation, it is essential to shift our focus to the connections among them as we move forward in our investigations of the gut-brain axis, the shaping of behavioral phenotypes, and the possible clinical implications of these interactions. This review summarizes the recent progress the field has made in understanding the important role the gut microbiome plays in the modulation of social and affective behaviors, as well as some of the intricate mechanisms by which the microbiome may be communicating with the brain and immune system. 
Psychological   Altered gut microbiota and activity in a murine model of autism spectrum disorders Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous group of complex neurodevelopmental disorders with evidence of genetic predisposition. Intestinal disturbances are reported in ASD patients and compositional changes in gut microbiota are described. However, the role of microbiota in brain disorders is poorly documented. Here, we used a murine model of ASD to investigate the relation between gut microbiota and autism-like behaviour. Using next generation sequencing technology, microbiota composition was investigated in mice in utero exposed to valproic acid (VPA). Moreover, levels of short chain fatty acids (SCFA) and lactic acid in caecal content were determined. Our data demonstrate a transgenerational impact of in utero VPA exposure on gut microbiota in the offspring. Prenatal VPA exposure affected operational taxonomic units (OTUs) assigned to genera within the main phyla of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes and the order of Desulfovibrionales, corroborating human ASD studies. In addition, OTUs assigned to genera of Alistipes, Enterorhabdus, Mollicutes and Erysipelotrichalis were especially associated with male VPA-exposed offspring. The microbial differences of VPA in utero-exposed males deviated from those observed in females and was (i) positively associated with increased levels of caecal butyrate as well as ileal neutrophil infiltration and (ii) inversely associated with intestinal levels of serotonin and social behaviour scores. These findings show that autism-like behaviour and its intestinal phenotype is associated with altered microbial colonization and activity in a murine model for ASD, with preponderance in male offspring. These results open new avenues in the scientific trajectory of managing neurodevelopmental disorders by gut microbiome modulation. 
Psychological   Blunted 5-HT1A receptor-mediated responses and antidepressant-like behavior in mice lacking the GABAB1a but not GABAB1b subunit isoforms Rationale: There is accumulating evidence for a role of GABAB receptors in depression. GABAB receptors are heterodimers of GABAB1 and GABAB2 receptor subunits. The predominant GABAB1 subunit isoforms are GABAB1a and GABAB1b. GABAB1 isoforms in mice differentially influence cognition, conditioned fear, and susceptibility to stress, yet their influence in tests of antidepressant-like activity has not been fully investigated. Objectives: Given the interactions between GABAB receptors and the serotonergic system and the involvement of 5-HT1A receptors (5-HT1AR) in antidepressant action, we sought to evaluate 5-HT1AR function in GABAB1a−/− and GABAB1b−/− mice. Methods: GABAB1a−/− and GABAB1b−/− mice were assessed in the forced swim test (FST), and body temperature and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responses to the 5-HT1AR agonist 8-OH-DPAT were determined. Brain 5-HT1AR expression was assessed by [³H]-MPPF and [3H]-8-OH-DPAT autoradiography and 5-HT1AR G-protein coupling by [³⁵S]GTP-γ-S autoradiography. Results: As previously described, GABAB1a−/− mice showed an antidepressant-like profile in the FST. GABAB1a−/− mice also demonstrated profoundly blunted hypothermic and motoric responses to 8-OH-DPAT. Furthermore, 8-OH-DPAT-induced corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) release were both attenuated in GABAB1a−/− mice. Interestingly, [³H]-MPPF and [³H]-8-OH-DPAT binding was largely unaffected by genotype. [³⁵S]GTP-γ-S autoradiography suggested that altered 5-HT1AR G-protein coupling only partially contributes to the functional presynaptic 5-HT1AR desensitization, and not at all to the blunted postsynaptic 5-HT1AR-mediated responses, seen in GABAB1a−/− mice. Conclusion: These data demonstrate distinct functional links between 5-HT1ARs and the GABAB1a subunit isoform and suggest that the GABAB1a isoform may be implicated in the antidepressant-like effects of GABAB receptor antagonists and in neurobiological mechanisms underlying depression.
Psychological   Gut microbiome and brain functional connectivity in infants-a preliminary study focusing on the amygdala Recently, there has been a surge of interest in the possibility that microbial communities inhabiting the human gut could affect cognitive development and increase risk for mental illness via the "microbiome-gut-brain axis." Infancy likely represents a critical period for the establishment of these relationships, as it is the most dynamic stage of postnatal brain development and a key period in the maturation of the microbiome. Indeed, recent reports indicate that characteristics of the infant gut microbiome are associated with both temperament and cognitive performance. The neural circuits underlying these relationships have not yet been delineated. To address this gap, resting-state fMRI scans were acquired from 39 1-year-old human infants who had provided fecal samples for identification and relative quantification of bacterial taxa. Measures of alpha diversity were generated and tested for associations with measures of functional connectivity. Primary analyses focused on the amygdala as manipulation of the gut microbiota in animal models alters the structure and neurochemistry of this brain region. Secondary analyses explored functional connectivity of nine canonical resting-state functional networks. Alpha diversity was significantly associated with functional connectivity between the amygdala and thalamus and between the anterior cingulate cortex and anterior insula. These regions play an important role in processing/responding to threat. Alpha diversity was also associated with functional connectivity between the supplementary motor area (SMA, representing the sensorimotor network) and the inferior parietal lobule (IPL). Importantly, SMA-IPL connectivity also related to cognitive outcomes at 2 years of age, suggesting a potential pathway linking gut microbiome diversity and cognitive outcomes during infancy. These results provide exciting new insights into the gut-brain axis during early human development and should stimulate further studies into whether microbiome-associated changes in brain circuitry influence later risk for psychopathology.
Psychological   Gut to Brain Dysbiosis: Mechanisms Linking Western Diet Consumption, the Microbiome, and Cognitive Impairment Consumption of a Western Diet (WD) that is high in saturated fat and added sugars negatively impacts cognitive function, particularly mnemonic processes that rely on the integrity of the hippocampus. Emerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiome influences cognitive function via the gut-brain axis, and that WD factors significantly alter the proportions of commensal bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract. Here we review mechanisms through which consuming a WD negatively impacts neurocognitive function, with a particular focus on recent evidence linking the gut microbiome with dietary- and metabolic-associated hippocampal impairment. We highlight evidence linking gut bacteria to altered intestinal permeability and blood brain barrier integrity, thus making the brain more vulnerable to the influx of deleterious substances from the circulation. WD consumption also increases production of endotoxin by commensal bacteria, which may promote neuroinflammation and cognitive dysfunction. Recent findings also show that diet-induced alterations in gut microbiota impair peripheral insulin sensitivity, which is associated with hippocampal neuronal derrangements and associated mnemonic deficits. In some cases treatment with specific probiotics or prebiotics can prevent or reverse some of the deleterious impact of WD consumption on neuropsychological outcomes, indicating that targeting the microbiome may be a successful strategy for combating dietary- and metabolic-associated cognitive impairment.
Psychological   Infant Gut Microbiome Associated With Cognitive Development Studies in rodents provide compelling evidence that microorganisms inhabiting the gut influence neurodevelopment. In particular, experimental manipulations that alter intestinal microbiota impact exploratory and communicative behaviors and cognitive performance. In humans, the first years of life are a dynamic time in gut colonization and brain development, but little is known about the relationship between these two processes. Methods We tested whether microbial composition at 1 year of age is associated with cognitive outcomes using the Mullen Scales of Early Learning and with global and regional brain volumes using structural magnetic resonance imaging at 1 and 2 years of age. Fecal samples were collected from 89 typically developing 1-year-olds. 16S ribosomal RNA amplicon sequencing was used for identification and relative quantification of bacterial taxa. Results Cluster analysis identified 3 groups of infants defined by their bacterial composition. Mullen scores at 2 years of age differed significantly between clusters. In addition, higher alpha diversity was associated with lower scores on the overall composite score, visual reception scale, and expressive language scale at 2 years of age. Exploratory analyses of neuroimaging data suggest the gut microbiome has minimal effects on regional brain volumes at 1 and 2 years of age. Conclusions This is the first study to demonstrate associations between the gut microbiota and cognition in human infants. As such, it represents an essential first step in translating animal data into the clinic.
Psychological   Linking the gut microbiota to a brain neurotransmitter The past decade has yielded substantial evidence that the gut microbiome modulates brain function, including for instance behaviors relevant to anxiety and depression, pointing to a need to identify the biological pathways involved. In 2013 Clarke and colleagues reported that the early-life microbiome regulates the hippocampal serotonergic system in a sex-dependent manner, findings that opened up numerous lines of inquiry on the effects of the microbiome on neurodevelopment and behavior. 
Psychological   Man and the Microbiome: A New Theory of Everything? The gut microbiome is implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide range of psychological disorders. Preclinical studies have provided us with key insights into the mechanisms by which the microbiome influences bidirectional gut–brain communication. There are many signaling pathways involved, including the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis, immune modulation, tryptophan and serotonin metabolism, bile acid transformation, microbial production of neuroactive compounds, and regulation of the endocannabinoid system. The complex and widespread influence of the microbiome on many physiological and psychological processes has generated a keen interest in its therapeutic potential for depression, anxiety, autism, and other psychiatric disorders. It has been shown that the microbiome composition of people suffering with such conditions differs significantly from that of healthy controls, and although the area is in its infancy, interventional studies that alter a person's microbiome through the use of probiotics, prebiotics, or dietary change can alleviate psychopathological symptoms. 
Psychological   Metabolic and microbiota measures as peripheral biomarkers in major depressive disorder Advances in understanding the role of the microbiome in physical and mental health are at the forefront of medical research and hold potential to have a direct impact on precision medicine approaches. In the past 7 years, we have studied the role of microbiota-brain communication on behavior in mouse models using germ-free mice, mice exposed to antibiotics, and healthy specific pathogen free mice. Through our work and that of others, we have seen an amazing increase in our knowledge of how bacteria signal to the brain and the implications this has for psychiatry. Gut microbiota composition and function are influenced both by genetics, age, sex, diet, life experiences, and many other factors of psychiatric and bodily disorders and thus may act as potential biomarkers of the gut-brain axis that could be used in psychiatry and co-morbid conditions. There is a particular need in major depressive disorder and other mental illness to identify biomarkers that can stratify patients into more homogeneous groups to provide better treatment and for development of new therapeutic approaches. Peripheral outcome measures of host-microbe bidirectional communication have significant translational value as biomarkers. Enabling stratification of clinical populations, based on individual biological differences, to predict treatment response to pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions. Here we consider the links between co-morbid metabolic syndrome and depression, focusing on biomarkers including leptin and ghrelin in combination with assessing gut microbiota composition, as a potential tool to help identify individual differences in depressed population. 
Psychological   Microbes and mental health: A review There is a growing emphasis on the relationship between the microorganisms inhabiting the gut (gastrointestinal microbiota) and human health. The emergence of a microbiota-gut-brain axis to describe the complex networks and relationship between the gastrointestinal microbiota and host reflects the major influence this environment may have in brain health and disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). Bidirectional communication between the microbiota and the CNS occurs through autonomic, neuroendocrine, enteric, and immune system pathways. Potential neurobiological mechanisms through which disruptions in this network may impact health and disease include hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis activation, and altered activity of neurotransmitter and immune systems. Perturbations of the gut microbial community have already been implicated in multiple host diseases such as obesity, diabetes, and inflammation, while recent evidence suggests a potential role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as depression and anxiety. Here, we review the current literature related to the influence of the gut microbial community on central nervous system function, with a specific focus on anxiety and depressive symptoms. The role of stress and stress-mediated changes in autonomic, neuroendocrine, immune, and neurotransmitter systems are examined, followed by a discussion of the role of the microbiota in novel gastrointestinal-based treatment options for the prevention and treatment of brain-based disorders such as anxiety and depression.; 
Psychological   Microbiome and mental health in the modern environment A revolution in the understanding of the pathophysiology of mental illness combined with new knowledge about host/microbiome interactions and psychoneuroimmunology has opened an entirely new field of study, the “psychobiotics”. The modern microbiome is quite changed compared to our ancestral one due to diet, antibiotic exposure, and other environmental factors, and these differences may well impact our brain health. The sheer complexity and scope of how diet, probiotics, prebiotics, and intertwined environmental variables could influence mental health are profound obstacles to an organized and useful study of the microbiome and psychiatric disease. However, the potential for positive anti-inflammatory effects and symptom amelioration with perhaps few side effects makes the goal of clarifying the role of the microbiota in mental health a vital one.
Psychological   Microbiota affects the expression of genes involved in HPA axis regulation and local metabolism of glucocorticoids in chronic psychosocial stress The commensal microbiota affects brain functioning, emotional behavior and ACTH and corticosterone responses to acute stress. However, little is known about the role of the microbiota in shaping the chronic stress response in the peripheral components of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and in the colon. Here, we studied the effects of the chronic stress-microbiota interaction on HPA axis activity and on the expression of colonic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) system, cytokines and 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11HSD1), an enzyme that determines locally produced glucocorticoids. Using specific pathogen-free (SPF) and germ-free (GF) BALB/c mice, we showed that the microbiota modulates emotional behavior in social conflicts and the response of the HPA axis, colon and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) to chronic psychosocial stress. In the pituitary gland, microbiota attenuated the expression of Fkbp5, a gene regulating glucocorticoid receptor sensitivity, while in the adrenal gland, it attenuated the expression of genes encoding steroidogenesis (MC2R, StaR, Cyp11a1) and catecholamine synthesis (TH, PNMT). The pituitary expression of CRH receptor type 1 (CRHR1) and of proopiomelanocortin was not influenced by microbiota. In the colon, the microbiota attenuated the expression of 11HSD1, CRH, urocortin UCN2 and its receptor, CRHR2, but potentiated the expression of cytokines TNFα, IFNγ, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-13 and IL-17, with the exception of IL-1β. Compared to GF mice, chronic stress upregulated in SPF animals the expression of pituitary Fkbp5 and colonic CRH and UCN2 and downregulated the expression of colonic cytokines. Differences in the stress responses of both GF and SPF animals were also observed when immunophenotype of MLN cells and their secretion of cytokines were analyzed. The data suggest that the presence of microbiota/intestinal commensals plays an important role in shaping the response of peripheral tissues to stress and indicates possible pathways by which the environment can interact with glucocorticoid signaling.
Psychological   Prenatal stress affects placental cytokines and neurotrophins, commensal microbes, and anxiety-like behavior in adult female offspring Recent studies demonstrate that exposure to stress changes the composition of the intestinal microbiota, which is associated with development of stress-induced changes to social behavior, anxiety, and depression. Stress during pregnancy has also been related to the emergence of these disorders; whether commensal microbes are part of a maternal intrauterine environment during prenatal stress is not known. Here, we demonstrate that microbiome changes are manifested in the mother, and also found in female offspring in adulthood, with a correlation between stressed mothers and female offspring. Alterations in the microbiome have been shown to alter immune responses, thus we examined cytokines in utero. IL-1β was increased in placenta and fetal brain from offspring exposed to the prenatal stressor. Because IL-1β has been shown to prevent induction of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), we examined BDNF and found a reduction in female placenta and adult amygdala, suggesting in utero impact on neurodevelopment extending into adulthood. Furthermore, gastrointestinal microbial communities were different in adult females born from stressed vs. non-stressed pregnancies. Adult female offspring also demonstrated increased anxiety-like behavior and alterations in cognition, suggesting a critical window where stress is able to influence the microbiome and the intrauterine environment in a deleterious manner with lasting behavioral consequences. The microbiome may be a key link between the intrauterine environment and adult behavioral changes.
Psychological   Serotonin and tryptophan metabolites, autoantibodies and gut microbiome in APECED Intestinal autoimmunity with gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction has been shown in patients with autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). Patients lack entero-endocrine (EE) cells and have circulating autoantibodies (Aabs) against critical enzymes in serotonin (5-HT) biosynthesis. Design We sought to determine the serum levels of 5-HT, tryptophan (Trp) metabolites and L-DOPA in 37 Finnish APECED patients and to correlate their abundance with the presence of TPH and AADC Aabs, GI dysfunction and depressive symptoms. We also performed an exploratory analysis of the gut microbiome. Methods Serum 5-HT, L-DOPA and Trp metabolite levels were determined by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). TPH and AADC Aabs were measured by ELISA. Depression was assessed with a structured RBDI questionnaire. The V3–V4 regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene were sequenced for gut microbiome exploration. Results Serum 5-HT levels were significantly decreased (130 ± 131 nmol/L vs 686 ± 233 nmol/L, P < 0.0001) in APECED patients with TPH-1 (±AADC) Aabs compared to controls and patients with only AADC Aabs. Reduced 5-HT levels correlated with constipation. The genus Escherichia/Shigella was overrepresented in the intestinal microbiome. No correlation between serum Trp, 5-HT or l-DOPA levels and the RBDI total score, fatigue or sleep disorders was found. Conclusions This exploratory study found low serum levels of 5-HT to be associated with constipation and the presence of TPH-1 and AADC Aabs, but not with symptoms of depression. Hence, serum 5-HT, TPH1 and AADC Aabs should be determined in APECED patients presenting with GI symptoms.
Psychological   Sex-specific effects of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) on the microbiome and behavior of socially-isolated mice Dietary supplementation with the long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) has been shown to have a beneficial effect on reducing the symptoms associated with several neuropsychiatric conditions including anxiety and depression. However, the mechanisms underlying this effect remain largely unknown. Increasing evidence suggests that the vast repertoire of commensal bacteria within the gut plays a critical role in regulating various biological processes in the brain and may contribute to neuropsychiatric disease risk. The present study determined the contribution of DHA on anxiety and depressive-like behaviors through modulation of the gut microbiota in a paradigm of social isolation. Adult male and female mice were subjected to social isolation for 28 days and then placed either on a control diet or a diet supplemented with 0.1% or 1.0% DHA. Fecal pellets were collected both 24 h and 7 days following the introduction of the new diets. Behavioral testing revealed that male mice fed a DHA diet, regardless of dose, exhibited reduced anxiety and depressive-like behaviors compared to control fed mice while no differences were observed in female mice. As the microbiota-brain-axis has been recently implicated in behavior, composition of microbial communities were analyzed to examine if these sex-specific effects of DHA may be associated with changes in the gut microbiota (GM). Clear sex differences were observed with males and females showing distinct microbial compositions prior to DHA supplementation. The introduction of DHA into the diet also induced sex-specific interactions on the GM with the fatty acid producing a significant effect on the microbial profiles in males but not in females. Interestingly, levels of Allobaculum and Ruminococcus were found to significantly correlate with the behavioral changes observed in the male mice. Predictive metagenome analysis using PICRUSt was performed on the fecal samples collected from males and identified enrichment in functional KEGG pathway terms relevant to processes such as the biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids and antioxidant metabolism. These results indicate that DHA alters commensal community composition and produces beneficial effects on anxiety and depressive-like behaviors in a sex-specific manner. The present study provides insight into the mechanistic role that gut microbes may play in the regulation of anxiety and depressive-like behaviors and how dietary intervention can modulate these effects
Psychological   The contribution of the gut microbiome to neurodevelopment and neuropsychiatric disorders Bidirectional communication between the gut and brain is well recognized, with data now accruing for a specific role of the gut microbiota in that link, referred to as the microbiome-gut-brain axis. This review will discuss the emerging role of the gut microbiota in brain development and behavior. Animal studies have clearly demonstrated effects of the gut microbiota on gene expression and neurochemical metabolism impacting behavior and performance. Based on these changes, a modulating role of the gut microbiota has been demonstrated for a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders, including depression, anxiety, and movement including Parkinson's, and importantly for the pediatric population autism. Critical developmental windows that influence early behavioral outcomes have been identified that include both the prenatal environment and early postnatal colonization periods. The clearest data regarding the role of the gut microbiota on neurodevelopment and psychiatric disorders is from animal studies; however, human data have begun to emerge, including an association between early colonization patterns and cognition. The importance of understanding the contribution of the gut microbiota to the development and functioning of the nervous system lies in the potential to intervene using novel microbial-based approaches to treating neurologic conditions. While pathways of communication between the gut and brain are well established, the gut microbiome is a new component of this axis. The way in which organisms that live in the gut influence the central nervous system (CNS) and host behavior is likely to be multifactorial in origin. This includes immunologic, endocrine, and metabolic mechanisms, all of which are pathways used for other microbial-host interactions. Germ-free (GF) mice are an important model system for understanding the impact of gut microbes on development and function of the nervous system. Alternative animal model systems have further clarified the role of the gut microbiota, including antibiotic treatment, fecal transplantation, and selective gut colonization with specific microbial organisms. Recently, researchers have started to examine the human host as well. This review will examine the components of the CNS potentially influenced by the gut microbiota, and the mechanisms mediating these effects. Links between gut microbial colonization patterns and host behavior relevant to a pediatric population will be examined, highlighting important developmental windows in utero or early in development.
Psychological   The gut microbiome correlates with conspecific aggression in a small population of rescued dogs (Canis familiaris) Aggression is a serious behavioral disorder in domestic dogs that endangers both dogs and humans. The underlying causes of canine aggression are poorly resolved and require illumination to ensure effective therapy. Recent research links the compositional diversity of the gut microbiome to behavioral and psychological regulation in other mammals, such as mice and humans. Given these observations, we hypothesized that the composition of the canine gut microbiome could associate with aggression. We analyzed fecal microbiome samples collected from a small population of pit bull type dogs seized from a dogfighting organization. This population included 21 dogs that displayed conspecific aggressive behaviors and 10 that did not. Beta-diversity analyses support an association between gut microbiome structure and dog aggression. Additionally, we used a phylogenetic approach to resolve specific clades of gut bacteria that stratify aggressive and non-aggressive dogs, including clades within Lactobacillus, Dorea, Blautia, Turicibacter, and Bacteroides. Several of these taxa have been implicated in modulating mammalian behavior as well as gastrointestinal disease states. Although sample size limits this study, our findings indicate that gut microorganisms are linked to dog aggression and point to an aggression-associated physiological state that interacts with the gut microbiome. These results also indicate that the gut microbiome may be useful for diagnosing aggressive behaviors prior to their manifestation and potentially discerning cryptic etiologies of aggression.
Psychological   The gut microbiome in anorexia nervosa: relevance for nutritional rehabilitation Rapidly accumulating evidence supports the important role of gut microbiome in the regulation of mood, behaviour, appetite, gastrointestinal symptomology, and nutrient metabolism. These are all core features frequently altered in individuals with anorexia nervosa (AN). Current treatment recommendations for AN support the use of high-calorie diets as an essential part of nutritional rehabilitation, commonly achieved by elevating the fat content of the diet. However, in contrast to this approach, there is accumulating evidence suggesting the importance of balanced, high-fibre diets on the gut microbiome. Studies have demonstrated profound differences in the microbial composition of underweight people with AN and those of normal- or overweight individuals. Specific alterations vary widely between studies. It is thus far unclear to what extent the observed differences are brought on by iatrogenic effects of nutritional rehabilitation or the disorder itself. To date, only two studies have investigated the changes in the intestinal microbiota during nutritional rehabilitation and corresponding weight restoration. These studies suggest that the gut microbiome of AN patients was different to healthy controls both prior and following nutritional rehabilitation, though it is noted that these states were associated with lower and higher nutritional intakes, respectively. There is a clear need for further investigation regarding the effects of nutritional rehabilitation on the gut microbiome. Such research would provide insights into the potential role of gut microbiome in modulating the pathophysiology of AN and inform future treatment strategies.
Psychological   The maternal vaginal microbiome partially mediates the effects of prenatal stress on offspring gut and hypothalamus Early prenatal stress disrupts maternal-to-offspring microbiota transmission and has lasting effects on metabolism, physiology, cognition, and behavior in male mice. Here we show that transplantation of maternal vaginal microbiota from stressed dams into naive pups delivered by cesarean section had effects that partly resembled those seen in prenatally stressed males. However, transplantation of control maternal vaginal microbiota into prenatally stressed pups delivered by cesarean section did not rescue the prenatal-stress phenotype. Prenatal stress was associated with alterations in the fetal intestinal transcriptome and niche, as well as with changes in the adult gut that were altered by additional stress exposure in adulthood. Further, maternal vaginal transfer also partially mediated the effects of prenatal stress on hypothalamic gene expression, as observed after chronic stress in adulthood. These findings suggest that the maternal vaginal microbiota contribute to the lasting effects of prenatal stress on gut and hypothalamus in male mice.
Psychological   The Microbiome in Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Psychology and microbiology make unlikely friends, but the past decade has witnessed striking bidirectional associations between intrinsic gut microbes and the brain, relationships with largely untested psychological implications. Although microbe–brain relationships are receiving a great deal of attention in biomedicine and neuroscience, psychologists have yet to join this journey. Here, we illustrate microbial associations with emotion, cognition, and social behavior. However, despite considerable enthusiasm and potential, technical and conceptual limitations including low statistical power and lack of mechanistic descriptions prevent a nuanced understanding of microbiome–brain–behavior relationships. Our goal is to describe microbial effects in domains of cognitive significance and the associated challenges to stimulate interdisciplinary research on the contribution of this hidden kingdom to psychological processes.
Psychological   The microbiome regulates amygdala-dependent fear recall The amygdala is a key brain region that is critically involved in the processing and expression of anxiety and fear-related signals. In parallel, a growing number of preclinical and human studies have implicated the microbiome–gut–brain in regulating anxiety and stress-related responses. However, the role of the microbiome in fear-related behaviours is unclear. To this end we investigated the importance of the host microbiome on amygdala-dependent behavioural readouts using the cued fear conditioning paradigm. We also assessed changes in neuronal transcription and post-transcriptional regulation in the amygdala of naive and stimulated germfree (GF) mice, using a genome-wide transcriptome profiling approach. Our results reveal that GF mice display reduced freezing during the cued memory retention test. Moreover, we demonstrate that under baseline conditions, GF mice display altered transcriptional profile with a marked increase in immediate-early genes (for example, Fos, Egr2, Fosb, Arc) as well as genes implicated in neural activity, synaptic transmission and nervous system development. We also found a predicted interaction between mRNA and specific microRNAs that are differentially regulated in GF mice. Interestingly, colonized GF mice (ex-GF) were behaviourally comparable to conventionally raised (CON) mice. Together, our data demonstrates a unique transcriptional response in GF animals, likely because of already elevated levels of immediate-early gene expression and the potentially underlying neuronal hyperactivity that in turn primes the amygdala for a different transcriptional response. Thus, we demonstrate for what is to our knowledge the first time that the presence of the host microbiome is crucial for the appropriate behavioural response during amygdala-dependent memory retention. 
Psychological   The Microbiome-Gut-Behavior Axis: Crosstalk Between the Gut Microbiome and Oligodendrocytes Modulates Behavioral Responses. Environmental and dietary stimuli have always been implicated in brain development and behavioral responses. The gut, being the major portal of communication with the external environment, has recently been brought to the forefront of this interaction with the establishment of a gut-brain axis in health and disease. Moreover, recent breakthroughs in germ-free and antibiotic-treated mice have demonstrated the significant impact of the microbiome in modulating behavioral responses in mice and have established a more specific microbiome-gut-behavior axis. One of the mechanisms by which this axis affects social behavior is by regulating myelination at the prefrontal cortex, an important site for complex cognitive behavior planning and decision-making. The prefrontal cortex exhibits late myelination of its axonal projections that could extend into the third decade of life in humans, which make it susceptible to external influences, such as microbial metabolites. Changes in the gut microbiome were shown to alter the composition of the microbial metabolome affecting highly permeable bioactive compounds, such as p-cresol, which could impair oligodendrocyte differentiation. Dysregulated myelination in the prefrontal cortex is then able to affect behavioral responses in mice, shifting them towards social isolation. The reduced social interactions could then limit microbial exchange, which could otherwise pose a threat to the survival of the existing microbial community in the host and, thus, provide an evolutionary advantage to the specific microbial community. In this review, we will analyze the microbiome-gut-behavior axis, describe the interactions between the gut microbiome and oligodendrocytes and highlight their role in the modulation of social behavior.
Psychological   A gut feeling: Microbiome-brain-immune interactions modulate social and affective behaviors The expression of a wide range of social and affective behaviors, including aggression and investigation, as well as anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors, involves interactions among many different physiological systems, including the neuroendocrine and immune systems. Recent work suggests that the gut microbiome may also play a critical role in modulating behavior and likely functions as an important integrator across physiological systems. Microbes within the gut may communicate with the brain via both neural and humoral pathways, providing numerous avenues of research in the area of the gut-brain axis. We are now just beginning to understand the intricate relationships among the brain, microbiome, and immune system and how they work in concert to influence behavior. The effects of different forms of experience (e.g., changes in diet, immune challenge, and psychological stress) on the brain, gut microbiome, and the immune system have often been studied independently. Though because these systems do not work in isolation, it is essential to shift our focus to the connections among them as we move forward in our investigations of the gut-brain axis, the shaping of behavioral phenotypes, and the possible clinical implications of these interactions. This review summarizes the recent progress the field has made in understanding the important role the gut microbiome plays in the modulation of social and affective behaviors, as well as some of the intricate mechanisms by which the microbiome may be communicating with the brain and immune system. 
Psychological   A Microbial Relationship Between Irritable Bowel Syndrome and Depressive Symptoms: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is associated with depressive symptoms, but this relationship is poorly understood. Emerging research suggests that gut microbes are associated with symptoms in persons with IBS. The purpose of this integrative review is to describe the state of the science of the microbial relationship between IBS and depressive symptoms. PubMed, CINAHL, PsychINFO, and Web of Science were searched using “irritable bowel syndrome,” “microbiome,” “depression,” and related terms. Included articles were published in peer reviewed journals in English from 2009 to 2018. Studies on inflammatory bowel conditions, extra-intestinal microbiomes, or animal models were excluded. Fourteen quantitative studies met inclusion criteria, were critically appraised, and were analyzed using the Whittemore and Knafl method. Analysis revealed a consistently lower microbial biodiversity and lower proportions of Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus in persons with IBS and co-occurring depressive symptoms. Inclusion of participants with moderate or greater depressive symptoms scores distinguished the studies which reported microbe differences in depressive symptoms. The results of this integrative review underscore the need for studies with larger samples and inclusion of a larger range of depressive symptoms guided by an overarching conceptual framework, such as the biopsychosocial ecology framework. This effort needs to be combined with longitudinal designs in order to identify related microbial markers.
Psychological   Analysis of the relationship between the gut microbiome and dementia: a cross-sectional study conducted in Japan Dysregulation of the gut microbiome is associated with several life-threatening conditions and thus might represent a useful target for the prevention of dementia. However, the relationship between the gut microbial population and dementia has not yet been fully clarified. We recruited outpatients visiting our memory clinic to participate in this study. Information on patient demographics, risk factors, and activities of daily living was collected, and cognitive function was assessed using neuropsychological tests and brain magnetic resonance imaging scans. Fecal samples were obtained, and the gut microbiome was assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis, one of the most well-established and reliable 16S ribosomal RNA-based methods for classifying gut microbiota. Patients were divided into two groups, demented and non-demented. Multivariable logistic regression models were used to identify the variables independently associated with dementia. The T-RFLP analysis revealed differences in the composition of the gut microbiome: the number of Bacteroides (enterotype I) was lower and the number of ‘other’ bacteria (enterotype III) was higher in demented than non-demented patients. Multivariable analyses showed that the populations of enterotype I and enterotype III bacteria were strongly associated with dementia, independent of the traditional dementia biomarkers. Further studies of the metabolites of gut microbes are needed to determine the mechanism underlying this association.
Psychological   Gastrointestinal (non-systemic) antibiotic rifaximin differentially affects chronic stress-induced changes in colon microbiome and gut permeability without effect on behavior Chronic stress is often accompanied by gastrointestinal symptoms, which might be due to stress-induced shift of gut microbiome to pathogenic bacteria. It has been hypothesized that stress alters gut permeability and results in mild endotoxemia which exaggerates HPA activity and contributes to anxiety and depression. To reveal the relationship between microbiome composition, stress-induced gastrointestinal functions and behavior, we treated chronically stressed mice with non-absorbable antibiotic, rifaximin. The 'two hits' stress paradigm was used, where newborn mice were separated from their mothers for 3 h daily as early life adversity (maternal separation, MS) and exposed to 4 weeks chronic variable stress (CVS) as adults. 16S rRNA based analysis of gut microbiome revealed increases of Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria and more specifically, Clostridium species in chronically stressed animals. In mice exposed to MS + CVS, we found extenuation of colonic mucosa, increased bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph node, elevation of plasma LPS levels and infiltration of F4/80 positive macrophages into the colon lamina propria. Chronically stressed mice displayed behavioral signs of anxiety-like behavior and neophobia. Rifaximin treatment decreased Clostridium concentration, gut permeability and LPS plasma concentration and increased colonic expression of tight junction proteins (TJP1, TJP2) and occludin. However, these beneficial effects of rifaximin in chronically stressed mice was not accompanied by positive changes in behavior. Our results suggest that non-absorbable antibiotic treatment alleviates stress-induced local pathologies, however, does not affect stress-induced behavior. 
Psychological   Gut microbiome and brain functional connectivity in infants-a preliminary study focusing on the amygdala Recently, there has been a surge of interest in the possibility that microbial communities inhabiting the human gut could affect cognitive development and increase risk for mental illness via the "microbiome-gut-brain axis." Infancy likely represents a critical period for the establishment of these relationships, as it is the most dynamic stage of postnatal brain development and a key period in the maturation of the microbiome. Indeed, recent reports indicate that characteristics of the infant gut microbiome are associated with both temperament and cognitive performance. The neural circuits underlying these relationships have not yet been delineated. To address this gap, resting-state fMRI scans were acquired from 39 1-year-old human infants who had provided fecal samples for identification and relative quantification of bacterial taxa. Measures of alpha diversity were generated and tested for associations with measures of functional connectivity. Primary analyses focused on the amygdala as manipulation of the gut microbiota in animal models alters the structure and neurochemistry of this brain region. Secondary analyses explored functional connectivity of nine canonical resting-state functional networks. Alpha diversity was significantly associated with functional connectivity between the amygdala and thalamus and between the anterior cingulate cortex and anterior insula. These regions play an important role in processing/responding to threat. Alpha diversity was also associated with functional connectivity between the supplementary motor area (SMA, representing the sensorimotor network) and the inferior parietal lobule (IPL). Importantly, SMA-IPL connectivity also related to cognitive outcomes at 2 years of age, suggesting a potential pathway linking gut microbiome diversity and cognitive outcomes during infancy. These results provide exciting new insights into the gut-brain axis during early human development and should stimulate further studies into whether microbiome-associated changes in brain circuitry influence later risk for psychopathology.
Psychological   Gut microbiota and a selectively bred taste phenotype: A novel model of microbiome-behavior relationships Objectives: The microbiota-gut-brain axis is increasingly implicated in obesity, anxiety, stress, and other health-related processes. Researchers have proposed that gut microbiota may influence dietary habits, and pathways through the microbiota-gut-brain axis make such a relationship feasible; however, few data bear on the hypothesis. As a first step in the development of a model system, the gut microbiome was examined in rat lines selectively outbred on a taste phenotype with biobehavioral profiles that have diverged with respect to energy regulation, anxiety, and stress. Methods: Occidental low and high-saccharin–consuming rats were assessed for body mass and chow, water, and saccharin intake; littermate controls had shared cages with rats in the experimental group but were not assessed. Cecum and colon microbial communities were profiled using Illumina 16S rRNA sequencing and multivariate analysis of microbial diversity and composition. Results: The saccharin phenotype was confirmed (low-saccharin–consuming rats, 0.7Δ% [0.9Δ%]; high-saccharin– consuming rats, 28.1Δ% [3.6Δ%]). Regardless of saccharin exposure, gut microbiota differed between lines in terms of overall community similarity and taxa at lower phylogenetic levels. Specifically, 16 genera in three phyla distinguished the lines at a 10% false discovery rate. Discussion: The study demonstrates for the first time that rodent lines created through selective pressure on taste and differing on functionally related correlates host different microbial communities. Whether the microbiota are causally related to the taste phenotype or its correlates remains to be determined. These findings encourage further inquiry on the relationship of the microbiome to taste, dietary habits, emotion, and health.
Psychological   Gut microbiota and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: New perspectives for a challenging condition A bidirectional communication between the gut and the brain (gut–brain axis) is well recognized with the gut microbiota viewed as a key regulator of this cross-talk. Currently, a body of preclinical and to a lesser extent epidemiological evidence supports the notion that host–microbe interactions play a key role in brain development and function and in the etiology of neurodevelopmental disorders. Early life events and shifts away from traditional lifestyles are known to impact gut microbiota composition and function and, thereby, may increase the risk of developing neurodevelopmental disorders. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is nowadays the most prevalent neurodevelopmental disorder. Despite many years of research its etiology is unclear and its diagnosis and treatment are still challenging. Different factors reported to be associated with the risk of developing ADHD and/or linked to different ADHD manifestations have also been linked to shifts in gut microbiota composition, suggesting a link between the microbiota and the disorder. Evidence from preliminary human studies also suggests that dietary components that modulate gut microbiota may also influence ADHD development or symptoms, although further studies are warranted to confirm this hypothesis. Here, we firstly review the potential mechanisms by which the gut microbiota may regulate the brain–gut axis and influence behavior and neurodevelopmental disorders. Secondly, we discuss the current knowledge about the different factors and dietary components reported to be associated with the risk of developing ADHD or its manifestations and with shifts in gut microbiota composition. Finally, we briefly highlight the need to progress our understanding regarding the role of the gut microbiota in ADHD, since this could open new avenues for early intervention and improved management of the disease. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Psychological   Gut to Brain Dysbiosis: Mechanisms Linking Western Diet Consumption, the Microbiome, and Cognitive Impairment Consumption of a Western Diet (WD) that is high in saturated fat and added sugars negatively impacts cognitive function, particularly mnemonic processes that rely on the integrity of the hippocampus. Emerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiome influences cognitive function via the gut-brain axis, and that WD factors significantly alter the proportions of commensal bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract. Here we review mechanisms through which consuming a WD negatively impacts neurocognitive function, with a particular focus on recent evidence linking the gut microbiome with dietary- and metabolic-associated hippocampal impairment. We highlight evidence linking gut bacteria to altered intestinal permeability and blood brain barrier integrity, thus making the brain more vulnerable to the influx of deleterious substances from the circulation. WD consumption also increases production of endotoxin by commensal bacteria, which may promote neuroinflammation and cognitive dysfunction. Recent findings also show that diet-induced alterations in gut microbiota impair peripheral insulin sensitivity, which is associated with hippocampal neuronal derrangements and associated mnemonic deficits. In some cases treatment with specific probiotics or prebiotics can prevent or reverse some of the deleterious impact of WD consumption on neuropsychological outcomes, indicating that targeting the microbiome may be a successful strategy for combating dietary- and metabolic-associated cognitive impairment.
Psychological   Gut–neuroimmune interactions: the unexpected role of the immune system in brain development The exciting and somewhat unexpected relationship between the immune system and the brain has become one of the most fascinating topics in neuroscience. Even though the immune system was initially implicated in resolving viral and bacterial threats, it is now becoming more evident that it also plays a role in processes in the brain, both under healthy and pathological conditions. This novel role of the immune system in brain health has been implicated in various psychopathologies where neurodevelopment, stress and mood are central. In particular, its role in healthy brain development is becoming more evident, and understanding neuroimmune communication is becoming crucial in treating neurodevelopmental and mood disorders in later life. In the brain, glia function as part of the innate immune system and are programmed to respond to pathogens and physical injury. They also play an important role in neuronal development and pruning. These cells communicate with and respond to chemical signals, such as cytokines and chemokines, which can then initiate or downregulate inflammatory responses. Finally, the trillions of microbes residing in the gut can also stimulate cytokine and chemokine responses in the periphery and play an important role in both immunity and brain development.
Psychological   Infant Gut Microbiome Associated With Cognitive Development Background Studies in rodents provide compelling evidence that microorganisms inhabiting the gut influence neurodevelopment. In particular, experimental manipulations that alter intestinal microbiota impact exploratory and communicative behaviors and cognitive performance. In humans, the first years of life are a dynamic time in gut colonization and brain development, but little is known about the relationship between these two processes. Methods We tested whether microbial composition at 1 year of age is associated with cognitive outcomes using the Mullen Scales of Early Learning and with global and regional brain volumes using structural magnetic resonance imaging at 1 and 2 years of age. Fecal samples were collected from 89 typically developing 1-year-olds. 16S ribosomal RNA amplicon sequencing was used for identification and relative quantification of bacterial taxa. Results Cluster analysis identified 3 groups of infants defined by their bacterial composition. Mullen scores at 2 years of age differed significantly between clusters. In addition, higher alpha diversity was associated with lower scores on the overall composite score, visual reception scale, and expressive language scale at 2 years of age. Exploratory analyses of neuroimaging data suggest the gut microbiome has minimal effects on regional brain volumes at 1 and 2 years of age. Conclusions This is the first study to demonstrate associations between the gut microbiota and cognition in human infants. As such, it represents an essential first step in translating animal data into the clinic.
Psychological   Is adolescence the missing developmental link in Microbiome-Gut-Brain axis communication? Gut microbial research has recently opened new frontiers in neuroscience and potentiated novel therapies for mental health problems (Mayer, et al., 2014). Much of our understanding of the gut microbiome's role in brain function and behavior, however, has been largely derived from research on nonhuman animals. Even less is known about how the development of the gut microbiome influences critical periods of neural and behavioral development, particularly adolescence. In this review, we first discuss why the gut microbiome has become increasingly relevant to developmental cognitive neuroscience and provide a synopsis of the known connections of the gut microbiome with social-affective brain function and behavior, specifically highlighting human developmental work when possible. We then focus on adolescence, a key period of neurobiological and social-affective development. Specifically, we review the links between the gut microbiome and six overarching domains of change during adolescence: (a) social processes, (b) motivation and behavior, (c) neural development, (d) cognition, (e) neuroendocrine function, and (f) physical health and wellness. Using a developmental science perspective, we summarize key changes across these six domains to underscore the promise for the gut microbiome to bidirectionally influence and transform adolescent development.
Psychological   Linking the gut microbiota to a brain neurotransmitter The past decade has yielded substantial evidence that the gut microbiome modulates brain function, including for instance behaviors relevant to anxiety and depression, pointing to a need to identify the biological pathways involved. In 2013 Clarke and colleagues reported that the early-life microbiome regulates the hippocampal serotonergic system in a sex-dependent manner, findings that opened up numerous lines of inquiry on the effects of the microbiome on neurodevelopment and behavior. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Psychological   Making Sense of … the Microbiome in Psychiatry Microorganisms can be found almost anywhere, including in and on the human body. The collection of microorganisms associated with a certain location is called a microbiota, with its collective genetic material referred to as the microbiome. The largest population of microorganisms on the human body resides in the gastrointestinal tract; thus, it is not surprising that the most investigated human microbiome is the human gut microbiome. On average, the gut hosts microbes from more than 60 genera and contains more cells than the human body. The human gut microbiome has been shown to influence many aspects of host health, including more recently the brain., Several modes of interaction between the gut and the brain have been discovered, including via the synthesis of metabolites and neurotransmitters, activation of the vagus nerve, and activation of the immune system. A growing body of work is implicating the microbiome in a variety of psychological processes and neuropsychiatric disorders. These include mood and anxiety disorders, neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia, and even neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases. Moreover, it is probable that most psychotropic medications have an impact on the microbiome., Here, an overview will be provided for the bidirectional role of the microbiome in brain health, age-associated cognitive decline, and neurological and psychiatric disorders. Furthermore, a primer on the common microbiological and bioinformatics techniques used to interrogate the microbiome will be provided. This review is meant to equip the reader with a primer to this exciting research area that is permeating all areas of biological psychiatry research.
Psychological   Man and the Microbiome: A New Theory of Everything? The gut microbiome is implicated in the pathophysiology of a wide range of psychological disorders. Preclinical studies have provided us with key insights into the mechanisms by which the microbiome influences bidirectional gut–brain communication. There are many signaling pathways involved, including the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis, immune modulation, tryptophan and serotonin metabolism, bile acid transformation, microbial production of neuroactive compounds, and regulation of the endocannabinoid system. The complex and widespread influence of the microbiome on many physiological and psychological processes has generated a keen interest in its therapeutic potential for depression, anxiety, autism, and other psychiatric disorders. It has been shown that the microbiome composition of people suffering with such conditions differs significantly from that of healthy controls, and although the area is in its infancy, interventional studies that alter a person's microbiome through the use of probiotics, prebiotics, or dietary change can alleviate psychopathological symptoms. Expected final online publication date for the Annual Review of Clinical Psychology Volume 15 is May 7, 2019.
Psychological   Metabolic and microbiota measures as peripheral biomarkers in major depressive disorder Advances in understanding the role of the microbiome in physical and mental health are at the forefront of medical research and hold potential to have a direct impact on precision medicine approaches. In the past 7 years, we have studied the role of microbiota-brain communication on behavior in mouse models using germ-free mice, mice exposed to antibiotics, and healthy specific pathogen free mice. Through our work and that of others, we have seen an amazing increase in our knowledge of how bacteria signal to the brain and the implications this has for psychiatry. Gut microbiota composition and function are influenced both by genetics, age, sex, diet, life experiences, and many other factors of psychiatric and bodily disorders and thus may act as potential biomarkers of the gut-brain axis that could be used in psychiatry and co-morbid conditions. There is a particular need in major depressive disorder and other mental illness to identify biomarkers that can stratify patients into more homogeneous groups to provide better treatment and for development of new therapeutic approaches. Peripheral outcome measures of host-microbe bidirectional communication have significant translational value as biomarkers. Enabling stratification of clinical populations, based on individual biological differences, to predict treatment response to pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions. Here we consider the links between co-morbid metabolic syndrome and depression, focusing on biomarkers including leptin and ghrelin in combination with assessing gut microbiota composition, as a potential tool to help identify individual differences in depressed population. 
Psychological   Microbes and mental health: A review There is a growing emphasis on the relationship between the microorganisms inhabiting the gut (gastrointestinal microbiota) and human health. The emergence of a microbiota-gut-brain axis to describe the complex networks and relationship between the gastrointestinal microbiota and host reflects the major influence this environment may have in brain health and disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). Bidirectional communication between the microbiota and the CNS occurs through autonomic, neuroendocrine, enteric, and immune system pathways. Potential neurobiological mechanisms through which disruptions in this network may impact health and disease include hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis activation, and altered activity of neurotransmitter and immune systems. Perturbations of the gut microbial community have already been implicated in multiple host diseases such as obesity, diabetes, and inflammation, while recent evidence suggests a potential role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as depression and anxiety. Here, we review the current literature related to the influence of the gut microbial community on central nervous system function, with a specific focus on anxiety and depressive symptoms. The role of stress and stress-mediated changes in autonomic, neuroendocrine, immune, and neurotransmitter systems are examined, followed by a discussion of the role of the microbiota in novel gastrointestinal-based treatment options for the prevention and treatment of brain-based disorders such as anxiety and depression.
Psychological   Microbiome and mental health in the modern environment A revolution in the understanding of the pathophysiology of mental illness combined with new knowledge about host/microbiome interactions and psychoneuroimmunology has opened an entirely new field of study, the “psychobiotics”. The modern microbiome is quite changed compared to our ancestral one due to diet, antibiotic exposure, and other environmental factors, and these differences may well impact our brain health. The sheer complexity and scope of how diet, probiotics, prebiotics, and intertwined environmental variables could influence mental health are profound obstacles to an organized and useful study of the microbiome and psychiatric disease. However, the potential for positive anti-inflammatory effects and symptom amelioration with perhaps few side effects makes the goal of clarifying the role of the microbiota in mental health a vital one.
Psychological   Microbiota affects the expression of genes involved in HPA axis regulation and local metabolism of glucocorticoids in chronic psychosocial stress The commensal microbiota affects brain functioning, emotional behavior and ACTH and corticosterone responses to acute stress. However, little is known about the role of the microbiota in shaping the chronic stress response in the peripheral components of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and in the colon. Here, we studied the effects of the chronic stress-microbiota interaction on HPA axis activity and on the expression of colonic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) system, cytokines and 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11HSD1), an enzyme that determines locally produced glucocorticoids. Using specific pathogen-free (SPF) and germ-free (GF) BALB/c mice, we showed that the microbiota modulates emotional behavior in social conflicts and the response of the HPA axis, colon and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) to chronic psychosocial stress. In the pituitary gland, microbiota attenuated the expression of Fkbp5, a gene regulating glucocorticoid receptor sensitivity, while in the adrenal gland, it attenuated the expression of genes encoding steroidogenesis (MC2R, StaR, Cyp11a1) and catecholamine synthesis (TH, PNMT). The pituitary expression of CRH receptor type 1 (CRHR1) and of proopiomelanocortin was not influenced by microbiota. In the colon, the microbiota attenuated the expression of 11HSD1, CRH, urocortin UCN2 and its receptor, CRHR2, but potentiated the expression of cytokines TNFα, IFNγ, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-13 and IL-17, with the exception of IL-1β. Compared to GF mice, chronic stress upregulated in SPF animals the expression of pituitary Fkbp5 and colonic CRH and UCN2 and downregulated the expression of colonic cytokines. Differences in the stress responses of both GF and SPF animals were also observed when immunophenotype of MLN cells and their secretion of cytokines were analyzed. The data suggest that the presence of microbiota/intestinal commensals plays an important role in shaping the response of peripheral tissues to stress and indicates possible pathways by which the environment can interact with glucocorticoid signaling.
Psychological   Post-weaning social isolation of rats leads to long-term disruption of the gut microbiota-immune-brain axis Early-life stress is an established risk for the development of psychiatric disorders. Post-weaning isolation rearing of rats produces lasting developmental changes in behavior and brain function that may have translational pathophysiological relevance to alterations seen in schizophrenia, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Accumulating evidence supports the premise that gut microbiota influence brain development and function by affecting inflammatory mediators, the hypothalamic–pituitaryadrenal axis and neurotransmission, but there is little knowledge of whether the microbiota-gut-brain axis might contribute to the development of schizophrenia-related behaviors. To this end the effects of social isolation (SI; a well-validated animal model for schizophrenia)-induced changes in rat behavior were correlated with alterations in gut microbiota, hippocampal neurogenesis and brain cytokine levels. Twenty-four male Lister hooded rats were housed in social groups (group-housed, GH, 3 littermates per cage) or alone (SI) from weaning (post-natal day 24) for four weeks before recording open field exploration, locomotor activity/novel object discrimination (NOD), elevated plus maze, conditioned freezing response (CFR) and restraint stress at one week intervals. Post-mortem caecal microbiota composition, cortical and hippocampal cytokines and neurogenesis were correlated to indices of behavioral changes. SI rats were hyperactive in the open field and locomotor activity chambers traveling further than GH controls in the less aversive peripheral zone. While SI rats showed few alterations in plus maze or NOD they froze for significantly less time than GH following conditioning in the CFR paradigm, consistent with impaired associative learning and memory. SI rats had significantly fewer BrdU/NeuN positive cells in the dentate gyrus than GH controls. SI rats had altered microbiota composition with increases in Actinobacteria and decreases in the class Clostridia compared to GH controls. Differences were also noted at genus level. Positive correlations were seen between microbiota, hippocampal IL-6 and IL-10, conditioned freezing and open field exploration. Adverse early-life stress resulting from continuous SI increased several indices of ‘anxiety-like’ behavior and impaired associative learning and memory accompanied by changes to gut microbiota, reduced hippocampal IL-6, IL-10 and neurogenesis. This study suggests that early-life stress may produce long-lasting changes in gut microbiota contributing to development of abnormal neuronal and endocrine function and behavior which could play a pivotal role in the aetiology of psychiatric illness.
Psychological   Prenatal stress affects placental cytokines and neurotrophins, commensal microbes, and anxiety-like behavior in adult female offspring Recent studies demonstrate that exposure to stress changes the composition of the intestinal microbiota, which is associated with development of stress-induced changes to social behavior, anxiety, and depression. Stress during pregnancy has also been related to the emergence of these disorders; whether commensal microbes are part of a maternal intrauterine environment during prenatal stress is not known. Here, we demonstrate that microbiome changes are manifested in the mother, and also found in female offspring in adulthood, with a correlation between stressed mothers and female offspring. Alterations in the microbiome have been shown to alter immune responses, thus we examined cytokines in utero. IL-1β was increased in placenta and fetal brain from offspring exposed to the prenatal stressor. Because IL-1β has been shown to prevent induction of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), we examined BDNF and found a reduction in female placenta and adult amygdala, suggesting in utero impact on neurodevelopment extending into adulthood. Furthermore, gastrointestinal microbial communities were different in adult females born from stressed vs. non-stressed pregnancies. Adult female offspring also demonstrated increased anxiety-like behavior and alterations in cognition, suggesting a critical window where stress is able to influence the microbiome and the intrauterine environment in a deleterious manner with lasting behavioral consequences. The microbiome may be a key link between the intrauterine environment and adult behavioral changes. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2017 APA, all rights reserved)
Psychological   Serotonin and tryptophan metabolites, autoantibodies and gut microbiome in APECED Objective Intestinal autoimmunity with gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction has been shown in patients with autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). Patients lack entero-endocrine (EE) cells and have circulating autoantibodies (Aabs) against critical enzymes in serotonin (5-HT) biosynthesis. Design We sought to determine the serum levels of 5-HT, tryptophan (Trp) metabolites and L-DOPA in 37 Finnish APECED patients and to correlate their abundance with the presence of TPH and AADC Aabs, GI dysfunction and depressive symptoms. We also performed an exploratory analysis of the gut microbiome. Methods Serum 5-HT, L-DOPA and Trp metabolite levels were determined by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). TPH and AADC Aabs were measured by ELISA. Depression was assessed with a structured RBDI questionnaire. The V3–V4 regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene were sequenced for gut microbiome exploration. Results Serum 5-HT levels were significantly decreased (130 ± 131 nmol/L vs 686 ± 233 nmol/L, P < 0.0001) in APECED patients with TPH-1 (±AADC) Aabs compared to controls and patients with only AADC Aabs. Reduced 5-HT levels correlated with constipation. The genus Escherichia/Shigella was overrepresented in the intestinal microbiome. No correlation between serum Trp, 5-HT or l-DOPA levels and the RBDI total score, fatigue or sleep disorders was found. Conclusions This exploratory study found low serum levels of 5-HT to be associated with constipation and the presence of TPH-1 and AADC Aabs, but not with symptoms of depression. Hence, serum 5-HT, TPH1 and AADC Aabs should be determined in APECED patients presenting with GI symptoms.
Psychological   Sex-specific effects of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) on the microbiome and behavior of socially-isolated mice Dietary supplementation with the long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) has been shown to have a beneficial effect on reducing the symptoms associated with several neuropsychiatric conditions including anxiety and depression. However, the mechanisms underlying this effect remain largely unknown. Increasing evidence suggests that the vast repertoire of commensal bacteria within the gut plays a critical role in regulating various biological processes in the brain and may contribute to neuropsychiatric disease risk. The present study determined the contribution of DHA on anxiety and depressive-like behaviors through modulation of the gut microbiota in a paradigm of social isolation. Adult male and female mice were subjected to social isolation for 28 days and then placed either on a control diet or a diet supplemented with 0.1% or 1.0% DHA. Fecal pellets were collected both 24 h and 7 days following the introduction of the new diets. Behavioral testing revealed that male mice fed a DHA diet, regardless of dose, exhibited reduced anxiety and depressive-like behaviors compared to control fed mice while no differences were observed in female mice. As the microbiota-brain-axis has been recently implicated in behavior, composition of microbial communities were analyzed to examine if these sex-specific effects of DHA may be associated with changes in the gut microbiota (GM). Clear sex differences were observed with males and females showing distinct microbial compositions prior to DHA supplementation. The introduction of DHA into the diet also induced sex-specific interactions on the GM with the fatty acid producing a significant effect on the microbial profiles in males but not in females. Interestingly, levels of Allobaculum and Ruminococcus were found to significantly correlate with the behavioral changes observed in the male mice. Predictive metagenome analysis using PICRUSt was performed on the fecal samples collected from males and identified enrichment in functional KEGG pathway terms relevant to processes such as the biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids and antioxidant metabolism. These results indicate that DHA alters commensal community composition and produces beneficial effects on anxiety and depressive-like behaviors in a sex-specific manner. The present study provides insight into the mechanistic role that gut microbes may play in the regulation of anxiety and depressive-like behaviors and how dietary intervention can modulate these effects. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2017 APA, all rights reserved)
Psychological   Strain differences in the susceptibility to the gut–brain axis and neurobehavioural alterations induced by maternal immune activation in mice There is a growing realization that the severity of the core symptoms of autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia is associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction. Nonetheless, the mechanisms underlying such comorbidities remain unknown. Several genetic and environmental factors have been linked to a higher susceptibility to neurodevelopmental abnormalities. The maternal immune activation (MIA) rodent model is a valuable tool for elucidating the basis of this interaction. We induced MIA with polyinosinic–polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) at gestational day 12.5 and assessed behavioural, physiological and molecular aspects relevant to the gut–brain axis in the offspring of an outbred (NIH Swiss) and an inbred (C57BL6/J) mouse strain. Our results showed that the specific MIA protocol employed induces social deficits in both strains. However, alterations in anxiety and depression-like behaviours were more pronounced in NIH Swiss mice. These strain-specific behavioural effects in the NIH Swiss mice were associated with marked changes in important components of gut–brain axis communication: the endocrine response to stress and gut permeability. In addition, MIA-induced changes in vasopressin receptor 1a mRNA expression in the hypothalamus were observed in NIH Swiss mice only. Taken together, these data suggest that genetic background is a critical factor in susceptibility to the gut–brain axis effects induced by MIA. 
Psychological   The contribution of the gut microbiome to neurodevelopment and neuropsychiatric disorders The contribution of the gut microbiome to neurodevelopment and neuropsychiatric disorders
Psychological   The Gut Microbiome as a Component of the Gut–Brain Axis in Cognitive Health Introduction:The human microbiome, the microorganisms living in and on the body, plays a vital role in brain physiology and pathophysiology. The gut microbiome (GMB) has been identified as a link in the gut?brain axis moderating cognitive development and health.Objectives:The objectives of this scoping review are to discuss mechanisms of the microbiome?gut?brain axis in cognition, review the existing literature on the GMB and cognition, and discuss implications for nursing research.Methods:We searched Pubmed using the terms ?gut microbiome,? ?brain,? and ?cognition? and the terms ?gut brain axis,? ?microbiome,? and ?cognition?; removed duplicates, studies not published in English, and unrelated publications; and added additional articles identified through references. We retained the 85 most relevant publications for this review.Results:Common themes in the current literature include GMB components; interactions on cognitive development; effects of GMB?gut?brain interactions on cognition, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer?s disease; effects of GMB interactions with physiologic stress on cognition in critical care; and GMB modification for improved cognition. Review of the literature on each of these topics reveals multiple theoretical mechanisms of action for GMB?gut?brain interaction that modify cognitive development and function across the lifespan.Discussion:GMB components and dysbiosis have been implicated in many cognitive states, and specific microbiota constituents contribute to cognitive development, stability, and impairment. The study of these interactions is relevant to nursing research as it addresses the holistic human experience and microbiome constituents are modifiable, facilitating translation into the clinical setting.
Psychological   The gut microbiome in anorexia nervosa: relevance for nutritional rehabilitation Rapidly accumulating evidence supports the important role of gut microbiome in the regulation of mood, behaviour, appetite, gastrointestinal symptomology, and nutrient metabolism. These are all core features frequently altered in individuals with anorexia nervosa (AN). Current treatment recommendations for AN support the use of high-calorie diets as an essential part of nutritional rehabilitation, commonly achieved by elevating the fat content of the diet. However, in contrast to this approach, there is accumulating evidence suggesting the importance of balanced, high-fibre diets on the gut microbiome. Studies have demonstrated profound differences in the microbial composition of underweight people with AN and those of normal- or overweight individuals. Specific alterations vary widely between studies. It is thus far unclear to what extent the observed differences are brought on by iatrogenic effects of nutritional rehabilitation or the disorder itself. To date, only two studies have investigated the changes in the intestinal microbiota during nutritional rehabilitation and corresponding weight restoration. These studies suggest that the gut microbiome of AN patients was different to healthy controls both prior and following nutritional rehabilitation, though it is noted that these states were associated with lower and higher nutritional intakes, respectively. There is a clear need for further investigation regarding the effects of nutritional rehabilitation on the gut microbiome. Such research would provide insights into the potential role of gut microbiome in modulating the pathophysiology of AN and inform future treatment strategies.
Psychological   The maternal vaginal microbiome partially mediates the effects of prenatal stress on offspring gut and hypothalamus Early prenatal stress disrupts maternal-to-offspring microbiota transmission and has lasting effects on metabolism, physiology, cognition, and behavior in male mice. Here we show that transplantation of maternal vaginal microbiota from stressed dams into naive pups delivered by cesarean section had effects that partly resembled those seen in prenatally stressed males. However, transplantation of control maternal vaginal microbiota into prenatally stressed pups delivered by cesarean section did not rescue the prenatal-stress phenotype. Prenatal stress was associated with alterations in the fetal intestinal transcriptome and niche, as well as with changes in the adult gut that were altered by additional stress exposure in adulthood. Further, maternal vaginal transfer also partially mediated the effects of prenatal stress on hypothalamic gene expression, as observed after chronic stress in adulthood. These findings suggest that the maternal vaginal microbiota contribute to the lasting effects of prenatal stress on gut and hypothalamus in male mice.
Psychological   The Microbiome in Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Psychology and microbiology make unlikely friends, but the past decade has witnessed striking bidirectional associations between intrinsic gut microbes and the brain, relationships with largely untested psychological implications. Although microbe–brain relationships are receiving a great deal of attention in biomedicine and neuroscience, psychologists have yet to join this journey. Here, we illustrate microbial associations with emotion, cognition, and social behavior. However, despite considerable enthusiasm and potential, technical and conceptual limitations including low statistical power and lack of mechanistic descriptions prevent a nuanced understanding of microbiome–brain–behavior relationships. Our goal is to describe microbial effects in domains of cognitive significance and the associated challenges to stimulate interdisciplinary research on the contribution of this hidden kingdom to psychological processes.
Psychological   The microbiome of the built environment and mental health The microbiome of the built environment (MoBE) is a relatively new area of study. While some knowledge has been gained regarding impacts of the MoBE on the human microbiome and disease vulnerability, there is little knowledge of the impacts of the MoBE on mental health. Depending on the specific microbial species involved, the transfer of microorganisms from the built environment to occupant’s cutaneous or mucosal membranes has the potential to increase or disrupt immunoregulation and/or exaggerate or suppress inflammation. Preclinical evidence highlighting the influence of the microbiota on systemic inflammation supports the assertion that microorganisms, including those originating from the built environment, have the potential to either increase or decrease the risk of inflammation-induced psychiatric conditions and their symptom severity. With advanced understanding of both the ecology of the built environment, and its influence on the human microbiome, it may be possible to develop bioinformed strategies for management of the built environment to promote mental health. Here we present a brief summary of microbiome research in both areas and highlight two interdependencies including the following: (1) effects of the MoBE on the human microbiome and (2) potential opportunities for manipulation of the MoBE in order to improve mental health. In addition, we propose future research directions including strategies for assessment of changes in the microbiome of common areas of built environments shared by multiple human occupants, and associated cohort-level changes in the mental health of those who spend time in the buildings. Overall, our understanding of the fields of both the MoBE and influence of host-associated microorganisms on mental health are advancing at a rapid pace and, if linked, could offer considerable benefit to health and wellness.
Psychological   What can the gut microbiome teach us about the connections between child physical and mental health? A systematic review A deeper understanding of the gut-brain axis is of significance in pediatrics, given the influential role of early childhood experiences and exposures in shaping the microbiome, and health, across the life course. This systematic review synthesized evidence on the connection between the gut microbiome and mental health in children with physical illness. Six electronic databases were systematically searched and data extracted according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. Of 1,476 identified articles, 11 articles reporting on nine unique studies (all randomized controlled trials) were included. Most studies examined the gut microbiome in infants with colic, while the remaining studies investigated outcomes in children aged 1 day to 18 years at risk for atopic dermatitis or irritable bowel syndrome. Baseline and postintervention gut microbiome differences varied across studies. Findings on psychological functioning also varied, with only half of the captured studies showing a positive effect of intervention on psychological well-being. Only two studies analyzed the association between the gut microbiome and psychological outcomes, each with a different pattern of results. As the field moves forward, it will be critical to gain a better understanding of the microbiome characteristics that influence mental health outcomes in pediatric populations.
Psychological   Acne, the Skin Microbiome, and Antibiotic Treatment Acne vulgaris is a chronic skin disorder involving hair follicles and sebaceous glands. Multiple factors contribute to the disease, including skin microbes. The skin microbiome in the follicle is composed of a diverse group of microorganisms. Among them, Propionibacterium acnes and Malassezia spp. have been linked to acne development through their influence on sebum secretion, comedone formation, and inflammatory response. Antibiotics targeting P. acnes have been the mainstay in acne treatment for the past four decades. Among them, macrolides, clindamycin, and tetracyclines are the most widely prescribed. As antibiotic resistance becomes an increasing concern in clinical practice, understanding the skin microbiome associated with acne and the effects of antibiotic use on the skin commensals is highly relevant and critical to clinicians. In this review, we summarize recent studies of the composition and dynamics of the skin microbiome in acne and the effects of antibiotic treatment on skin microbes.;
Psychological   An Embodied Neurocomputational Framework for Organically Integrating Biopsychosocial Processes: An Application to the Role of Social Support in Health and Disease Objective Two distinct perspectives—typically referred to as the biopsychosocial and biomedical models—currently guide clinical practice. Although the role of psychosocial factors in contributing to physical and mental health outcomes is widely recognized, the biomedical model remains dominant. This is due in part to (a) the largely nonmechanistic focus of biopsychosocial research and (b) the lack of specificity it currently offers in guiding clinicians to focus on social, psychological, and/or biological factors in individual cases. In this article, our objective is to provide an evidence-based and theoretically sophisticated mechanistic model capable of organically integrating biopsychosocial processes. Methods To construct this model, we provide a narrative review of recent advances in embodied cognition and predictive processing within computational neuroscience, which offer mechanisms for understanding individual differences in social perceptions, visceral responses, health-related behaviors, and their interactions. We also review current evidence for bidirectional influences between social support and health as a detailed illustration of the novel conceptual resources offered by our model. Results When integrated, these advances highlight multiple mechanistic causal pathways between psychosocial and biological variables. Conclusions By highlighting these pathways, the resulting model has important implications motivating a more psychologically sophisticated, person-specific approach to future research and clinical application in the biopsychosocial domain. It also highlights the potential for quantitative computational modeling and the design of novel interventions. Finally, it should aid in guiding future research in a manner capable of addressing the current criticisms/limitations of the biopsychosocial model and may therefore represent an important step in bridging the gap between it and the biomedical perspective.
Psychological   Evolutionary dynamics of bacteria in the gut microbiome within and across hosts Gut microbiota are shaped by a combination of ecological and evolutionary forces. While the ecological dynamics have been extensively studied, much less is known about how species of gut bacteria evolve over time. Here, we introduce a model-based framework for quantifying evolutionary dynamics within and across hosts using a panel of metagenomic samples. We use this approach to study evolution in approximately 40 prevalent species in the human gut. Although the patterns of between-host diversity are consistent with quasi-sexual evolution and purifying selection on long timescales, we identify new genealogical signatures that challenge standard population genetic models of these processes. Within hosts, we find that genetic differences that accumulate over 6-month timescales are only rarely attributable to replacement by distantly related strains. Instead, the resident strains more commonly acquire a smaller number of putative evolutionary changes, in which nucleotide variants or gene gains or losses rapidly sweep to high frequency. By comparing these mutations with the typical between-host differences, we find evidence that some sweeps may be seeded by recombination, in addition to new mutations. However, comparisons of adult twins suggest that replacement eventually overwhelms evolution over multi-decade timescales, hinting at fundamental limits to the extent of local adaptation. Together, our results suggest that gut bacteria can evolve on human-relevant timescales, and they highlight the connections between these short-term evolutionary dynamics and longer-term evolution across hosts.;
Psychological   Gut microbiome and type 2 diabetes: where we are and where to go? Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is a highly prevalent metabolic disorder characterized by an imbalance in blood glucose level, altered lipid profile and high blood pressure. Genetic constituents, high-fat and high-energy dietary habits, and a sedentary lifestyle are three major factors that contribute to high risk of T2D. Several studies have reported gut microbiome dysbiosis as a factor in rapid progression of insulin resistance in T2D that accounts for about 90% of all diabetes cases worldwide. The gut microbiome dysbiosis may reshape intestinal barrier functions and host metabolic and signaling pathways, which are directly or indirectly related to the insulin resistance in T2D. Thousands of the metabolites derived from microbes interact with the epithelial, hepatic and cardiac cell receptors that modulate host physiology. Xenobiotics including dietary components, antibiotics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs strongly affect the gut microbial composition and can promote dysbiosis. Any change in the gut microbiota can shift the host metabolism towards increased energy harvest during diabetes and obesity. However, the exact mechanisms behind the dynamics of gut microbes and their impact on host metabolism at the molecular level are yet to be deciphered. We reviewed the published literature for better understanding of the dynamics of gut microbiota, factors that potentially induce gut microbiome dysbiosis and their relation to the progression of T2D. Special emphasis was also given to understand the gut microbiome induced breaching of intestinal barriers and/or tight junctions and their relation to insulin resistance.
Psychological   Invited Commentary: Improving accessibility of the Human Microbiome Project data through integration with R/Bioconductor Alterations in the composition of the microbiota have been implicated in many diseases. The Human Microbiome Project (HMP) provides a comprehensive reference dataset of the "normal" human microbiome of 242 healthy adults at five major body sites. The HMP used both 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing and whole-genome metagenomic sequencing to profile the subjects' microbial communities. However, accessing and analyzing the HMP dataset still presents technical and bioinformatic challenges, as researchers must import the microbiome data, integrate phylogenetic trees, and access and merge public and restricted metadata. In this issue, the HMP16SData R/Bioconductor package developed by Schiffer and colleagues (Am J Epidemiol. XXX; XX (XX): XX-XXX) greatly simplifies access to the HMP data by combining 16S taxonomic abundance data, public patient metadata, and phylogenetic trees as a single data object. The authors also provide an interface for users with approved dbGaP projects to easily retrieve and merge the controlled-access HMP metadata. This package has a broad range of appeal to researchers across disciplines and with various levels of expertise in using R and/or other statistical tools. This will translate to improved data accessibility for public health research, with data from healthy individuals serving as a reference for disease-associated studies.;
Psychological   Mode of birth and social inequalities in health: The effect of maternal education and access to hospital care on cesarean delivery Access to health care is an important factor in explaining health inequalities. This study focuses on the issue of access to health care as a driving force behind the social discrepancies in cesarean delivery using data from 707 newborn children in the 2006–2011 birth cohorts of the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP). Data on individual birth outcomes are linked to hospital data using extracts of the quality assessment reports of nearly all German hospitals. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are used to assess hospital service clusters within a 20-km radius buffer around mother׳s homes. Logistic regression models adjusting for maternal characteristics indicate that the likelihood to deliver by a cesarean section increases for the least educated women when they face constraints with regard to access to hospital care. No differences between the education groups are observed when access to obstetric care is high, thus a high access to hospital care seems to balance out health inequalities that are related to differences in education. The results emphasize the importance of focusing on unequal access to hospital care in explaining differences in birth outcomes.
Psychological   Role of colonic microbiota in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis Background: Recent studies have found gut microbiota to be closely associated with onset and perpetuation of UC. Currently, studies about gut microbiota have mainly covered samples collected from the intestinal lumen. However, the luminal flora is only part of the gut microbiota. Studies of the changes in mucosal flora under pathological conditions have been lacking. In this study, we investigated the correlation between the onset of UC and flora changes in different intestinal layers.; Methods: The dextran sulfate sodium(DSS)-induced UC model was established by exposing mice to cycles of DSS. The luminal contents, an inner mucus layer, and outer mucus layer were harvested under sterile conditions. The samples were then analyzed using high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA V3 + V4 amplicons. The colonic microbiota composition and diversity were analyzed and compared using MetaStat, LefSe, multivariate analysis of variance, and spatial statistics.; Results: The DSS-induced UC mouse model was successfully established. The diversity of the microbiota from luminal content, the outer mucus layer, and inner mucus layer were significantly different in both control and UC model groups. The statistically different OTUs belonged to Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae families within the order Clostridiales were mainly localized to the outer mucus layer.; Conclusions: The alterations in flora composition and diversity mainly occurred in the colonic outer mucus layer. The change of flora in the colonic mucus layers is of great significance in the understanding of common features of gut flora in IBD and the understanding of the relationship between gut flora and disease progression.;
Psychological   The Airplane Cabin Microbiome Serving over three billion passengers annually, air travel serves as a conduit for infectious disease spread, including emerging infections and pandemics. Over two dozen cases of in-flight transmissions have been documented. To understand these risks, a characterization of the airplane cabin microbiome is necessary. Our study team collected 229 environmental samples on ten transcontinental US flights with subsequent 16S rRNA sequencing. We found that bacterial communities were largely derived from human skin and oral commensals, as well as environmental generalist bacteria. We identified clear signatures for air versus touch surface microbiome, but not for individual types of touch surfaces. We also found large flight-to-flight beta diversity variations with no distinguishing signatures of individual flights, rather a high between-flight diversity for all touch surfaces and particularly for air samples. There was no systematic pattern of microbial community change from pre- to post-flight. Our findings are similar to those of other recent studies of the microbiome of built environments. In summary, the airplane cabin microbiome has immense airplane to airplane variability. The vast majority of airplane-associated microbes are human commensals or non-pathogenic, and the results provide a baseline for non-crisis-level airplane microbiome conditions.
Psychological   The effects of metabolic syndrome, obesity, and the gut microbiome on load-induced osteoarthritis Summary Objective Metabolic syndrome is characterized by obesity, hyperglycemia, hypertension, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. Metabolic syndrome is associated with osteoarthritis (OA), but it is unclear if the association is attributable to increased mechanical loading on joints caused by obesity or other aspects of metabolic syndrome. Here we examined the effects of altered metabolism, obesity, and the gut microbiome on load-induced OA. Design Cartilage damage was induced through cyclic compressive loading in four groups of adult male mice: Toll-like receptor-5 deficient (TLR5KO) mice that develop metabolic syndrome due to alterations in the gut microbiome, TLR5KO mice submitted to chronic antibiotics to prevent metabolic syndrome (TLR5KOΔMicrobiota), C57BL/6J mice fed a high fat diet to cause obesity (HFD), and untreated C57BL/6J mice (WT). Loading was applied for 2 weeks (n = 10–11/group) or 6 weeks (n = 10–11/group). Results After 2 weeks of loading, cartilage damage (OARSI score) was not different among groups. After 6 weeks of loading, HFD mice had increased load-induced cartilage damage, while TLR5KO mice had cartilage damage comparable to WT mice. TLR5KOΔMicrobiota mice had less cartilage damage than other groups. HFD mice had elevated serum inflammatory markers. Each group had a distinct gut microbiome composition. Conclusions Severe obesity increased load-induced cartilage damage, while milder changes in adiposity/metabolic syndrome seen in TLR5KO mice did not. Furthermore, the effects of systemic inflammation/obesity on cartilage damage depend on the duration of mechanical loading. Lastly, reduced cartilage damage in the TLR5KOΔMicrobiota mice suggests that the gut microbiome may influence cartilage pathology.
Psychological   The Gut Microbiome in Adult and Pediatric Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders The importance of gut microbiota in gastrointestinal (GI) physiology was well described, but our ability to study gut microbial ecosystems in their entirety was limited by culture-based methods prior to the sequencing revolution. The advent of high-throughput sequencing opened new avenues, allowing us to study gut microbial communities as an aggregate, independent of our ability to culture individual microbes. Early studies focused on association of changes in gut microbiota with different disease states, which was necessary to identify a potential role for microbes and generate novel hypotheses. Over the past few years the field has moved beyond associations to better understand the mechanistic implications of the microbiome in the pathophysiology of complex diseases. This movement also has resulted in a shift in our focus toward therapeutic strategies, which rely on better understanding the mediators of gut microbiota-host cross-talk. It is not surprising the gut microbiome has been implicated in the pathogenesis of functional gastrointestinal disorders given its role in modulating physiological processes such as immune development, GI motility and secretion, epithelial barrier integrity, and brain-gut communication. In this review, we focus on the current state of knowledge and future directions in microbiome research as it pertains to functional gastrointestinal disorders. We summarize the factors that help shape the gut microbiome in human beings. We discuss data from animal models and human studies to highlight existing paradigms regarding the mechanisms underlying microbiota-mediated alterations in physiological processes and their relevance in human interventions. While translation of microbiome science is still in its infancy, the outlook is optimistic and we are advancing in the right direction toward precise mechanism-based microbiota therapies.; Copyright © 2019 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Psychological   The microbiome beyond the horizon of ecological and evolutionary theory The ecological and evolutionary study of community formation, diversity, and stability is rooted in general theory and reinforced by decades of system-specific empirical work. Deploying these ideas to study the assembly, complexity, and dynamics of microbial communities living in and on eukaryotes has proved seductive, but challenging. The success of this research endeavour depends on our capacity to observe and characterize the distributions, abundances, and functional traits of microbiota, representing an array of technical and analytical challenges. Furthermore, a number of unique characteristics of microbial species, such as horizontal gene transfer, the production of public goods, toxin and antibiotic production, rapid evolution, and feedbacks between the microbiome and its host, are not easily accommodated by current ecological and evolutionary theory. Here we highlight potential pitfalls in the application of existing theoretical tools without careful consideration of the unique complexities of the microbiome, focusing particularly on the issue of human health, and anchoring our discussion in existing empirical evidence.
Psychological   The microbiome in patients with atopic dermatitis As an interface with the environment, the skin is a complex ecosystem colonized by many microorganisms that coexist in an established balance. The cutaneous microbiome inhibits colonization with pathogens, such as Staphylococcus aureus, and is a crucial component for function of the epidermal barrier. Moreover, crosstalk between commensals and the immune system is now recognized because microorganisms can modulate both innate and adaptive immune responses. Host-commensal interactions also have an effect on the developing immune system in infants and, subsequently, the occurrence of diseases, such as asthma and atopic dermatitis (AD). Later in life, the cutaneous microbiome contributes to the development and course of skin disease. Accordingly, in patients with AD, a decrease in microbiome diversity correlates with disease severity and increased colonization with pathogenic bacteria, such as S aureus. Early clinical studies suggest that topical application of commensal organisms (eg, Staphylococcus hominis or Roseomonas mucosa) reduces AD severity, which supports an important role for commensals in decreasing S aureus colonization in patients with AD. Advancing knowledge of the cutaneous microbiome and its function in modulating the course of skin disorders, such as AD, might result in novel therapeutic strategies.
Psychological   The microbiome of Escherichia coli and culture-negative nonsevere clinical mastitis: Characterization and associations with linear score and milk production Culture-negative and Escherichia coli cases are uncommonly treated in pathogen-based protocols for nonsevere mastitis. High-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing might reveal the presence of other pathogens and can provide information on microbial diversity. The objective was to explore the milk microbiome at the time of the mastitis event (enrollment) and its association with survival in the herd, milk production, and postevent linear score (LS) for cows with clinical mastitis characterized as negative or E. coli by culture. Fifty E. coli-positive and 35 culture-negative samples from cases were enrolled. No cases were treated with antimicrobials. All E. coli-positive quarters were characterized as transient; microbiological culture of samples taken 15 d postmastitis were negative for this organism. However, a difference in α-diversity (Shannon index) was present between enrollment and follow-up samples (3.8 vs. 5.1). When α-diversity was explored for enrollment E. coli samples, no relationship was observed between the Shannon indices of these samples and postmastitis LS. Alpha-diversity of the enrollment samples was lower for E. coli-positive cows that subsequently had greater losses in milk production. This difference was explained by a greater relative abundance of the family Enterobacteriaceae (67.8 vs. 38.4%) for cows that dropped in production. Analysis of composition of the microbiome identified one phylum, Proteobacteria, that differed between E. coli-positive cows that dropped in production and those that did not. Evaluation of β -diversity found no statistical relationship between postmastitis LS and the microbiome. When evaluating α- and β-diversities and composition of the microbiomes for culture-negative quarters, no associations were found for milk production changes and postmastitis LS. Three cows did not remain in the herd, limiting the ability to analyze survival. The findings suggest that a contributing factor to negative outcomes in E. coli-positive cows is relative abundance of this pathogen, and that no single or collective group of bacterial families is associated with milk production changes or postmastitis LS in culture-negative quarters. Although additional studies should be performed, the absence of associations between outcomes explored and microbial profiles in this study suggests that we are not missing opportunities by not treating nonsevere E. coli or culture-negative mastitis cases.; Copyright © 2019 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Psychological   The Microbiome Stress Project: Toward a Global Meta-Analysis of Environmental Stressors and Their Effects on Microbial Communities Microbial community structure is highly sensitive to natural (e.g. drought, temperature, fire) and anthropogenic (e.g. heavy metal exposure, land-use change) stressors. However, despite an immense amount of data generated, systematic, cross-environment analyses of microbiome responses to multiple disturbances are lacking. Here, we present the Microbiome Stress Project, an open-access database of environmental and host-associated 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing studies collected to facilitate cross-study analyses of microbiome responses to stressors. This database will comprise published and unpublished datasets re-processed from the raw sequences into exact sequence variants using our standardized computational pipeline. Our database will provide insight into general response patterns of microbiome diversity, structure, and stability to environmental stressors. It will also enable the identification of cross-study associations between single or multiple stressors and specific microbial clades. Here, we present a proof-of-concept meta-analysis of 606 microbiomes (from nine studies) to assess microbial community responses to: (1) one stressor in one environment: soil warming across a variety of soil types, (2) a range of stressors in one environment: soil microbiome responses to a comprehensive set of stressors (incl. temperature, diesel, antibiotics, land use change, drought, and heavy metals), (3) one stressor across a range of environments: copper exposure effects on soil, sediment, activated-sludge reactors, and gut environments, and (4) the general trends of microbiome stressor responses. Overall, we found that stressor exposure significantly decreases microbiome alpha diversity and increases beta diversity (community dispersion) across a range of environments and stressor types. We observed a hump-shaped relationship between microbial community resistance to stressors (i.e. the average pairwise similarity score between the control and stressed communities) and alpha diversity. We used Phylofactor to identify microbial clades and individual taxa as potential bioindicators of copper contamination across different environments. Using standardized computational and statistical methods, the Microbiome Stress Project will leverage thousands of existing datasets to build a general framework for how microbial communities respond to environmental stress.
Psychological   Women's and communities' views of targeted educational interventions to reduce unnecessary caesarean section: a qualitative evidence synthesis Background: There is continued debate about the role of women and communities in influencing rising rates of caesarean section (CS). In settings where CS rates exceed recommended levels, mothers and babies are exposed to potential harms that may outweigh the potential benefits. There is therefore a need to understand how educational interventions targeted at women and communities to reduce unnecessary CS are perceived and used. This qualitative evidence synthesis aimed to explore what women and communities say about the barriers and facilitators to intervention effectiveness for these important groups.; Method: Seven electronic databases were searched using predefined search terms. Studies reporting qualitative data pertaining to interventions, published between 1985 and March 2017, with no language restriction were sought. Study quality was independently assessed by two authors before qualitative evidence synthesis was undertaken using an interpretive, meta-ethnography approach. Resulting Statements of Findings were assessed using GRADE-CERQual, and summarised thematically.; Results: Twelve studies were included. They were published between 2001 and 2016. Eleven were from high-income countries. Twelve Summaries of Findings encompassed the data, and were graded (moderate or high) on CerQual. The Statements of Findings are reported under three final themes: 1) Mutability of women's and communities' beliefs about birth; 2) Multiplicity of individual information needs about birth; 3) Interactions with health professionals and influence of healthcare system on actual birth method. Women and communities value educational interventions that include opportunities for dialogue, are individualised (including acknowledgement of previous birth experiences), and are consistent with available clinical care and the advice of the health professional they come into contact with.; Conclusion: Women's values and preferences for birth, and for information format and content, vary across populations, and evolves in individual women over time. Interactions with health professionals and health system factors can partly be responsible for changes in views. Educational interventions should take into account these dynamic interactions, as well as the women's need for emotional support and dialogue with professionals alongside information about birth. Further research is required to test these findings and the utility of their practical application, particularly in medium and low income settings.; Systematic Review Registration Number: PROSPERO 2017 CRD42017059453 .;
Social  A gut feeling: Microbiome-brain-immune interactions modulate social and affective behaviors The expression of a wide range of social and affective behaviors, including aggression and investigation, as well as anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors, involves interactions among many different physiological systems, including the neuroendocrine and immune systems. Recent work suggests that the gut microbiome may also play a critical role in modulating behavior and likely functions as an important integrator across physiological systems. Microbes within the gut may communicate with the brain via both neural and humoral pathways, providing numerous avenues of research in the area of the gut-brain axis. We are now just beginning to understand the intricate relationships among the brain, microbiome, and immune system and how they work in concert to influence behavior. The effects of different forms of experience (e.g., changes in diet, immune challenge, and psychological stress) on the brain, gut microbiome, and the immune system have often been studied independently. Though because these systems do not work in isolation, it is essential to shift our focus to the connections among them as we move forward in our investigations of the gut-brain axis, the shaping of behavioral phenotypes, and the possible clinical implications of these interactions. This review summarizes the recent progress the field has made in understanding the important role the gut microbiome plays in the modulation of social and affective behaviors, as well as some of the intricate mechanisms by which the microbiome may be communicating with the brain and immune system. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Altered gut microbiota and activity in a murine model of autism spectrum disorders Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous group of complex neurodevelopmental disorders with evidence of genetic predisposition. Intestinal disturbances are reported in ASD patients and compositional changes in gut microbiota are described. However, the role of microbiota in brain disorders is poorly documented. Here, we used a murine model of ASD to investigate the relation between gut microbiota and autism-like behaviour. Using next generation sequencing technology, microbiota composition was investigated in mice in utero exposed to valproic acid (VPA). Moreover, levels of short chain fatty acids (SCFA) and lactic acid in caecal content were determined. Our data demonstrate a transgenerational impact of in utero VPA exposure on gut microbiota in the offspring. Prenatal VPA exposure affected operational taxonomic units (OTUs) assigned to genera within the main phyla of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes and the order of Desulfovibrionales, corroborating human ASD studies. In addition, OTUs assigned to genera of Alistipes, Enterorhabdus, Mollicutes and Erysipelotrichalis were especially associated with male VPA-exposed offspring. The microbial differences of VPA in utero-exposed males deviated from those observed in females and was (i) positively associated with increased levels of caecal butyrate as well as ileal neutrophil infiltration and (ii) inversely associated with intestinal levels of serotonin and social behaviour scores. These findings show that autism-like behaviour and its intestinal phenotype is associated with altered microbial colonization and activity in a murine model for ASD, with preponderance in male offspring. These results open new avenues in the scientific trajectory of managing neurodevelopmental disorders by gut microbiome modulation. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Factors influencing bacterial microbiome composition in a wild non-human primate community in Taï National Park, Côte d'Ivoire. Microbiomes impact a variety of processes including a host's ability to access nutrients and maintain health. While host species differences in microbiomes have been described across ecosystems, little is known about how microbiomes assemble, particularly in the ecological and social contexts in which they evolved. We examined gut microbiome composition in nine sympatric wild non-human primate (NHP) species. Despite sharing an environment and interspecific interactions, individuals harbored unique and persistent microbiomes influenced by host species, social group, and parentage, but surprisingly not by social relationships among members of a social group. We found a branching order of host-species networks constructed using the composition of their microbiomes as characters, which was incongruent with known NHP phylogenetic relationships, with chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes verus) sister to colobines, upon which they regularly prey. In contrast to phylogenetic clustering found in all monkey microbiomes, chimpanzee microbiomes were unique in that they exhibited patterns of phylogenetic overdispersion. This reflects unique ecological processes impacting microbiome composition in chimpanzees and future studies will elucidate the aspects of chimpanzee ecology, life history, and physiology that explain their unique microbiome community structure. Our study of contemporaneous microbiomes of all sympatric diurnal NHP in an ecosystem highlights the diverse dispersal routes shaping these complex communities.
Social  Implications of the gut microbiota in vulnerability to the social avoidance effects of chronic social defeat in male mice Appreciable evidence suggests that perturbations within the gut microbiome and the immune system may play a key role in the pathogenesis of depression stemming from earlier stressful experiences. In the present investigation we examined whether microbial changes in cecum contents were associated with social avoidance behaviors, a feature of depression, and pro-inflammatory variations among socially stressed mice. Male C57BL/6 mice experienced social defeat or a control condition once a day for 10 consecutive days. Social avoidance behaviors were examined three weeks after the last defeat or control episode and blood, brain, and cecum contents were collected 24h afterward for the determination of corticosterone, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and microbial populations. Mice that were most susceptible to the behavioral effects of chronic social defeat (reflected by severe social avoidance behaviors) displayed the greatest changes within particular sets of bacteria at the phylum and genus taxonomic ranks. Although plasma and brain cytokines were not significantly altered in socially defeated mice, changes in the mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6 within the prefrontal cortex were associated with elevated abundance of Flavobacterium spp. and reduced abundance of Turicibacter spp., which were also strongly correlated to social avoidance severity. Although at this time a causal connection cannot be inferred, these results point to the possibility that specific clusters of bacterial communities in cecum contents may be linked to vulnerability to social deficits stemming from prolonged social stressor experiences. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2017 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Infant Gut Microbiome Associated With Cognitive Development Background Studies in rodents provide compelling evidence that microorganisms inhabiting the gut influence neurodevelopment. In particular, experimental manipulations that alter intestinal microbiota impact exploratory and communicative behaviors and cognitive performance. In humans, the first years of life are a dynamic time in gut colonization and brain development, but little is known about the relationship between these two processes. Methods We tested whether microbial composition at 1 year of age is associated with cognitive outcomes using the Mullen Scales of Early Learning and with global and regional brain volumes using structural magnetic resonance imaging at 1 and 2 years of age. Fecal samples were collected from 89 typically developing 1-year-olds. 16S ribosomal RNA amplicon sequencing was used for identification and relative quantification of bacterial taxa. Results Cluster analysis identified 3 groups of infants defined by their bacterial composition. Mullen scores at 2 years of age differed significantly between clusters. In addition, higher alpha diversity was associated with lower scores on the overall composite score, visual reception scale, and expressive language scale at 2 years of age. Exploratory analyses of neuroimaging data suggest the gut microbiome has minimal effects on regional brain volumes at 1 and 2 years of age. Conclusions This is the first study to demonstrate associations between the gut microbiota and cognition in human infants. As such, it represents an essential first step in translating animal data into the clinic.
Social  Intestinal microbiota, metabolome and gender dimorphism in autism spectrum disorders There is a male predominance in autism, with a male/female ratio of 4:1 and an even higher ratio (11:1) in individuals with high functioning autism. The reasons for gender differences in ASD are unknown. Genetic and environmental factors have been implicated, but no definitive evidence exists to explain male predominance. In this review, evidence is presented to support a hypothesis that the intestinal microbiota and metabolome play a role in gender dimorphism in children with autism. Metabolic products may affect not only gastrointestinal (GI) tract and the central nervous system, but also behavior, supporting communication between GI tract and central nervous system. Furthermore, mood and anxiety may affect intestinal function, indicating bidirectional flow in the gut-brain axis. Several hormone-based hypotheses are discussed to explain the prevalence of autism in males. Observations in animal models and studies in humans on the intestinal microbiome and metabolome are reviewed to support the proposed gender dimorphism hypothesis. We hypothesize that the intestinal microbiome is a contributing factor to the prevalence of ASD in boys either directly, through microbial metabolites and/or epigenetic factors capable of regulating host gene expression through DNA methylation and/or histone modification. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Post-weaning social isolation of rats leads to long-term disruption of the gut microbiota-immune-brain axis Early-life stress is an established risk for the development of psychiatric disorders. Post-weaning isolation rearing of rats produces lasting developmental changes in behavior and brain function that may have translational pathophysiological relevance to alterations seen in schizophrenia, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Accumulating evidence supports the premise that gut microbiota influence brain development and function by affecting inflammatory mediators, the hypothalamic–pituitaryadrenal axis and neurotransmission, but there is little knowledge of whether the microbiota-gut-brain axis might contribute to the development of schizophrenia-related behaviors. To this end the effects of social isolation (SI; a well-validated animal model for schizophrenia)-induced changes in rat behavior were correlated with alterations in gut microbiota, hippocampal neurogenesis and brain cytokine levels. Twenty-four male Lister hooded rats were housed in social groups (group-housed, GH, 3 littermates per cage) or alone (SI) from weaning (post-natal day 24) for four weeks before recording open field exploration, locomotor activity/novel object discrimination (NOD), elevated plus maze, conditioned freezing response (CFR) and restraint stress at one week intervals. Post-mortem caecal microbiota composition, cortical and hippocampal cytokines and neurogenesis were correlated to indices of behavioral changes. SI rats were hyperactive in the open field and locomotor activity chambers traveling further than GH controls in the less aversive peripheral zone. While SI rats showed few alterations in plus maze or NOD they froze for significantly less time than GH following conditioning in the CFR paradigm, consistent with impaired associative learning and memory. SI rats had significantly fewer BrdU/NeuN positive cells in the dentate gyrus than GH controls. SI rats had altered microbiota composition with increases in Actinobacteria and decreases in the class Clostridia compared to GH controls. Differences were also noted at genus level. Positive correlations were seen between microbiota, hippocampal IL-6 and IL-10, conditioned freezing and open field exploration. Adverse early-life stress resulting from continuous SI increased several indices of ‘anxiety-like’ behavior and impaired associative learning and memory accompanied by changes to gut microbiota, reduced hippocampal IL-6, IL-10 and neurogenesis. This study suggests that early-life stress may produce long-lasting changes in gut microbiota contributing to development of abnormal neuronal and endocrine function and behavior which could play a pivotal role in the aetiology of psychiatric illness. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Spatial interference scale as a determinant of microbial range expansion In microbial communities, social interactions such as competition occur ubiquitously across multiple spatial scales from local proximity to remote distance. However, it remains unclear how such a spatial variation of interaction contributes to the structural development of microbial populations. Here, we developed synthetic consortia, biophysical theory, and simulations to elucidate the role of spatial interference scale in governing ecosystem organization during range expansion. For consortia with unidirectional interference, we discovered that, at growing fronts, the extinction time of toxin-sensitive species is reciprocal to the spatial interference scale. In contrast, for communities with bidirectional interference, their structures diverge into distinct monoculture colonies under different initial conditions, with the corresponding separatrix set by the spatial scale of interference. Near the separatrix, ecosystem development becomes noise-driven and yields opposite structures. Our results establish spatial interaction scale as a key determinant for microbial range expansion, providing insights into microbial spatial organization and synthetic ecosystem engineering.
Social  Strain differences in the susceptibility to the gut–brain axis and neurobehavioural alterations induced by maternal immune activation in mice There is a growing realization that the severity of the core symptoms of autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia is associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction. Nonetheless, the mechanisms underlying such comorbidities remain unknown. Several genetic and environmental factors have been linked to a higher susceptibility to neurodevelopmental abnormalities. The maternal immune activation (MIA) rodent model is a valuable tool for elucidating the basis of this interaction. We induced MIA with polyinosinic–polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) at gestational day 12.5 and assessed behavioural, physiological and molecular aspects relevant to the gut–brain axis in the offspring of an outbred (NIH Swiss) and an inbred (C57BL6/J) mouse strain. Our results showed that the specific MIA protocol employed induces social deficits in both strains. However, alterations in anxiety and depression-like behaviours were more pronounced in NIH Swiss mice. These strain-specific behavioural effects in the NIH Swiss mice were associated with marked changes in important components of gut–brain axis communication: the endocrine response to stress and gut permeability. In addition, MIA-induced changes in vasopressin receptor 1a mRNA expression in the hypothalamus were observed in NIH Swiss mice only. Taken together, these data suggest that genetic background is a critical factor in susceptibility to the gut–brain axis effects induced by MIA. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Structure, function and diversity of the healthy human microbiome The Human Microbiome Project Consortium reports the first results of their analysis of microbial communities from distinct, clinically relevant body habitats in a human cohort; the insights into the microbial communities of a healthy population lay foundations for future exploration of the epidemiology, ecology and translational applications of the human microbiome.
Social  The Microbiome in Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Psychology and microbiology make unlikely friends, but the past decade has witnessed striking bidirectional associations between intrinsic gut microbes and the brain, relationships with largely untested psychological implications. Although microbe–brain relationships are receiving a great deal of attention in biomedicine and neuroscience, psychologists have yet to join this journey. Here, we illustrate microbial associations with emotion, cognition, and social behavior. However, despite considerable enthusiasm and potential, technical and conceptual limitations including low statistical power and lack of mechanistic descriptions prevent a nuanced understanding of microbiome–brain–behavior relationships. Our goal is to describe microbial effects in domains of cognitive significance and the associated challenges to stimulate interdisciplinary research on the contribution of this hidden kingdom to psychological processes.
Social  The Microbiome-Gut-Behavior Axis: Crosstalk Between the Gut Microbiome and Oligodendrocytes Modulates Behavioral Responses. Environmental and dietary stimuli have always been implicated in brain development and behavioral responses. The gut, being the major portal of communication with the external environment, has recently been brought to the forefront of this interaction with the establishment of a gut-brain axis in health and disease. Moreover, recent breakthroughs in germ-free and antibiotic-treated mice have demonstrated the significant impact of the microbiome in modulating behavioral responses in mice and have established a more specific microbiome-gut-behavior axis. One of the mechanisms by which this axis affects social behavior is by regulating myelination at the prefrontal cortex, an important site for complex cognitive behavior planning and decision-making. The prefrontal cortex exhibits late myelination of its axonal projections that could extend into the third decade of life in humans, which make it susceptible to external influences, such as microbial metabolites. Changes in the gut microbiome were shown to alter the composition of the microbial metabolome affecting highly permeable bioactive compounds, such as p-cresol, which could impair oligodendrocyte differentiation. Dysregulated myelination in the prefrontal cortex is then able to affect behavioral responses in mice, shifting them towards social isolation. The reduced social interactions could then limit microbial exchange, which could otherwise pose a threat to the survival of the existing microbial community in the host and, thus, provide an evolutionary advantage to the specific microbial community. In this review, we will analyze the microbiome-gut-behavior axis, describe the interactions between the gut microbiome and oligodendrocytes and highlight their role in the modulation of social behavior.
Social  The social network of microorganisms - how auxotrophies shape complex communities. Microorganisms engage in complex interactions with other organisms and their environment. Recent studies have shown that these interactions are not limited to the exchange of electron donors. Most microorganisms are auxotrophs, thus relying on external nutrients for growth, including the exchange of amino acids and vitamins. Currently, we lack a deeper understanding of auxotrophies in microorganisms and how nutrient requirements differ between different strains and different environments. In this Opinion article, we describe how the study of auxotrophies and nutrient requirements among members of complex communities will enable new insights into community composition and assembly. Understanding this complex network over space and time is crucial for developing strategies to interrogate and shape microbial communities.
Social  A gut feeling: Microbiome-brain-immune interactions modulate social and affective behaviors The expression of a wide range of social and affective behaviors, including aggression and investigation, as well as anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors, involves interactions among many different physiological systems, including the neuroendocrine and immune systems. Recent work suggests that the gut microbiome may also play a critical role in modulating behavior and likely functions as an important integrator across physiological systems. Microbes within the gut may communicate with the brain via both neural and humoral pathways, providing numerous avenues of research in the area of the gut-brain axis. We are now just beginning to understand the intricate relationships among the brain, microbiome, and immune system and how they work in concert to influence behavior. The effects of different forms of experience (e.g., changes in diet, immune challenge, and psychological stress) on the brain, gut microbiome, and the immune system have often been studied independently. Though because these systems do not work in isolation, it is essential to shift our focus to the connections among them as we move forward in our investigations of the gut-brain axis, the shaping of behavioral phenotypes, and the possible clinical implications of these interactions. This review summarizes the recent progress the field has made in understanding the important role the gut microbiome plays in the modulation of social and affective behaviors, as well as some of the intricate mechanisms by which the microbiome may be communicating with the brain and immune system. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Acute and repeated exposure to social stress reduces gut microbiota diversity in Syrian hamsters [Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 348 of Behavioural Brain Research (see record [rid]2018-17152-001[/rid]). The authors note that the Abstract was not included in the article and that the Acknowledgement section had errors. The correct Abstract now appears in this record, and the updated Acknowledgement section is provided in the erratum.] Social stress can promote a variety of neuropsychiatric illnesses, many of which have a high co-morbidity with gastrointestinal disorders. Recent data indicate that gastrointestinal microbiota can affect their host’s brain and behavior. Syrian hamsters are ideal subjects for social stress research because they are territorial, aggressive, and rapidly form dominant/subordinate relationships. The purpose of this study was to determine if exposure to social stress in hamsters alters gut microbiota in dominants and subordinates after an agonistic encounter and if pre-stress gut microbiota composition is correlated with the outcome of such a conflict. Microbiota composition was assessed via 16S mRNA Illumina sequencing on fecal samples. One agonistic encounter caused a decrease in alpha diversity in both dominant and subordinate animals with a more pronounced decrease after repeated encounters. PERMANOVA analysis of the unweighted unifrac distance revealed a distinct change in beta diversity after one and nine encounters in both dominants and subordinates. Linear discriminant analysis (LEfSE) showed bacteria from the order Lactobacillales were significantly reduced following social stress in both dominants and subordinates, and both groups exhibited increases in phyla Bacteroidetes and decreases in phyla Firmicutes following repeated encounters. LEfSE analysis on samples collected prior to social interaction revealed that some microbial taxa were correlated with a hamster achieving dominant or subordinate status. These data suggest that even an acute exposure to social stress can impact gastrointestinal microbiota and that the state of the microbial community before social stress may predict dominant/subordinate status following a subsequent agonistic encounter. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Altered gut microbiota and activity in a murine model of autism spectrum disorders Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous group of complex neurodevelopmental disorders with evidence of genetic predisposition. Intestinal disturbances are reported in ASD patients and compositional changes in gut microbiota are described. However, the role of microbiota in brain disorders is poorly documented. Here, we used a murine model of ASD to investigate the relation between gut microbiota and autism-like behaviour. Using next generation sequencing technology, microbiota composition was investigated in mice in utero exposed to valproic acid (VPA). Moreover, levels of short chain fatty acids (SCFA) and lactic acid in caecal content were determined. Our data demonstrate a transgenerational impact of in utero VPA exposure on gut microbiota in the offspring. Prenatal VPA exposure affected operational taxonomic units (OTUs) assigned to genera within the main phyla of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes and the order of Desulfovibrionales, corroborating human ASD studies. In addition, OTUs assigned to genera of Alistipes, Enterorhabdus, Mollicutes and Erysipelotrichalis were especially associated with male VPA-exposed offspring. The microbial differences of VPA in utero-exposed males deviated from those observed in females and was (i) positively associated with increased levels of caecal butyrate as well as ileal neutrophil infiltration and (ii) inversely associated with intestinal levels of serotonin and social behaviour scores. These findings show that autism-like behaviour and its intestinal phenotype is associated with altered microbial colonization and activity in a murine model for ASD, with preponderance in male offspring. These results open new avenues in the scientific trajectory of managing neurodevelopmental disorders by gut microbiome modulation. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Can social partnerships influence the microbiome? Insights from ant farmers and their trophobiont mutualists. Mutualistic interactions with microbes have played a crucial role in the evolution and ecology of animal hosts. However, it is unclear what factors are most important in influencing particular host-microbe associations. While closely related animal species may have more similar microbiota than distantly related species due to phylogenetic contingencies, social partnerships with other organisms, such as those in which one animal farms another, may also influence an organism's symbiotic microbiome. We studied a mutualistic network of Brachymyrmex and Lasius ants farming several honeydew-producing Prociphilus aphids and Rhizoecus mealybugs to test whether the mutualistic microbiomes of these interacting insects are primarily correlated with their phylogeny or with their shared social partnerships. Our results confirm a phylogenetic signal in the microbiomes of aphid and mealybug trophobionts, with each species harbouring species-specific endosymbiont strains of Buchnera (aphids), Tremblaya and Sodalis (mealybugs), and Serratia (both mealybugs and aphids) despite being farmed by the same ants. This is likely explained by strict vertical transmission of trophobiont endosymbionts between generations. In contrast, our results show the ants' microbiome is possibly shaped by their social partnerships, with ants that farm the same trophobionts also sharing strains of sugar-processing Acetobacteraceae bacteria, known from other honeydew-feeding ants and which likely reside extracellularly in the ants' guts. These ant-microbe associations are arguably more "open" and subject to horizontal transmission or social transmission within ant colonies. These findings suggest that the role of social partnerships in shaping a host's symbiotic microbiome can be variable and is likely dependent on how the microbes are transmitted across generations. (© 2018 The Authors. Molecular Ecology Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.)
Social  Environment dominates over host genetics in shaping human gut microbiota Human gut microbiome composition is shaped by multiple factors but the relative contribution of host genetics remains elusive. Here we examine genotype and microbiome data from 1,046 healthy individuals with several distinct ancestral origins who share a relatively common environment, and demonstrate that the gut microbiome is not significantly associated with genetic ancestry, and that host genetics have a minor role in determining microbiome composition. We show that, by contrast, there are significant similarities in the compositions of the microbiomes of genetically unrelated individuals who share a household, and that over 20% of the inter-person microbiome variability is associated with factors related to diet, drugs and anthropometric measurements. We further demonstrate that microbiome data significantly improve the prediction accuracy for many human traits, such as glucose and obesity measures, compared to models that use only host genetic and environmental data. These results suggest that microbiome alterations aimed at improving clinical outcomes may be carried out across diverse genetic backgrounds.
Social  Gut microbiome composition is associated with spatial structuring and social interactions in semi-feral Welsh Mountain ponies. Background: Microbiome composition is linked to host functional traits including metabolism and immune function. Drivers of microbiome composition are increasingly well-characterised; however, evidence of group-level microbiome convergence is limited and may represent a multi-level trait (i.e. across individuals and groups), whereby heritable phenotypes are influenced by social interactions. Here, we investigate the influence of spatial structuring and social interactions on the gut microbiome composition of Welsh mountain ponies.; Results: We show that semi-feral ponies exhibit variation in microbiome composition according to band (group) membership, in addition to considerable within-individual variation. Spatial structuring was also identified within bands, suggesting that despite communal living, social behaviours still influence microbiome composition. Indeed, we show that specific interactions (i.e. mother-offspring and stallion-mare) lead to more similar microbiomes, further supporting the notion that individuals influence the microbiome composition of one another and ultimately the group. Foals exhibited different microbiome composition to sub-adults and adults, most likely related to differences in diet.; Conclusions: We provide novel evidence that microbiome composition is structured at multiple levels within populations of social mammals and thus may form a unit on which selection can act. High levels of within-individual variation in microbiome composition, combined with the potential for social interactions to influence microbiome composition, suggest the direction of microbiome selection may be influenced by the individual members present in the group. Although the functional implications of this require further research, these results lend support to the idea that multi-level selection can act on microbiomes.
Social  Implications of the gut microbiota in vulnerability to the social avoidance effects of chronic social defeat in male mice Appreciable evidence suggests that perturbations within the gut microbiome and the immune system may play a key role in the pathogenesis of depression stemming from earlier stressful experiences. In the present investigation we examined whether microbial changes in cecum contents were associated with social avoidance behaviors, a feature of depression, and pro-inflammatory variations among socially stressed mice. Male C57BL/6 mice experienced social defeat or a control condition once a day for 10 consecutive days. Social avoidance behaviors were examined three weeks after the last defeat or control episode and blood, brain, and cecum contents were collected 24h afterward for the determination of corticosterone, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and microbial populations. Mice that were most susceptible to the behavioral effects of chronic social defeat (reflected by severe social avoidance behaviors) displayed the greatest changes within particular sets of bacteria at the phylum and genus taxonomic ranks. Although plasma and brain cytokines were not significantly altered in socially defeated mice, changes in the mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6 within the prefrontal cortex were associated with elevated abundance of Flavobacterium spp. and reduced abundance of Turicibacter spp., which were also strongly correlated to social avoidance severity. Although at this time a causal connection cannot be inferred, these results point to the possibility that specific clusters of bacterial communities in cecum contents may be linked to vulnerability to social deficits stemming from prolonged social stressor experiences. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2017 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Interactions between social groups of colobus monkeys (Colobus vellerosus) explain similarities in their gut microbiomes The gut microbiome is structured by social groups in a variety of host taxa. Whether this pattern is driven by relatedness, similar diets or shared social environments is under debate because few studies have had access to the data necessary to disentangle these factors in wild populations. We investigated whether diet, relatedness or the 1m proximity network best explains differences in the gut microbiome among 45 female colobus monkeys in eight social groups residing at Boabeng-Fiema, Ghana. We combined demographic and behavioural data collected during May-August 2007 and October 2008-April 2009 with 16S rRNA sequencing of faecal samples collected during the latter part of each observation period. Depending on the beta diversity index, social group identity explained 19–28% of the variation in gut microbiome beta diversity. When comparing the predictive power of dietary dissimilarity, relatedness and connectedness in the 1m proximity network, the models with social connectedness received the strongest support, even in our analyses that excluded within-group dyads. This novel finding indicates that microbes may be transmitted during intergroup encounters, which could occur either indirectly via shared environments or directly via social contact. Lastly, some of the gut microbial taxa that appear to be transmitted via 1m proximity are associated with digestion of plant material. Further research is needed to investigate whether this type of gut microbe transmission yields health benefits, which could provide an incentive for the formation and maintenance of social bonds within and between social groups. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Intestinal microbiota, metabolome and gender dimorphism in autism spectrum disorders There is a male predominance in autism, with a male/female ratio of 4:1 and an even higher ratio (11:1) in individuals with high functioning autism. The reasons for gender differences in ASD are unknown. Genetic and environmental factors have been implicated, but no definitive evidence exists to explain male predominance. In this review, evidence is presented to support a hypothesis that the intestinal microbiota and metabolome play a role in gender dimorphism in children with autism. Metabolic products may affect not only gastrointestinal (GI) tract and the central nervous system, but also behavior, supporting communication between GI tract and central nervous system. Furthermore, mood and anxiety may affect intestinal function, indicating bidirectional flow in the gut-brain axis. Several hormone-based hypotheses are discussed to explain the prevalence of autism in males. Observations in animal models and studies in humans on the intestinal microbiome and metabolome are reviewed to support the proposed gender dimorphism hypothesis. We hypothesize that the intestinal microbiome is a contributing factor to the prevalence of ASD in boys either directly, through microbial metabolites and/or epigenetic factors capable of regulating host gene expression through DNA methylation and/or histone modification. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Is adolescence the missing developmental link in Microbiome-Gut-Brain axis communication? Gut microbial research has recently opened new frontiers in neuroscience and potentiated novel therapies for mental health problems (Mayer, et al., 2014). Much of our understanding of the gut microbiome's role in brain function and behavior, however, has been largely derived from research on nonhuman animals. Even less is known about how the development of the gut microbiome influences critical periods of neural and behavioral development, particularly adolescence. In this review, we first discuss why the gut microbiome has become increasingly relevant to developmental cognitive neuroscience and provide a synopsis of the known connections of the gut microbiome with social-affective brain function and behavior, specifically highlighting human developmental work when possible. We then focus on adolescence, a key period of neurobiological and social-affective development. Specifically, we review the links between the gut microbiome and six overarching domains of change during adolescence: (a) social processes, (b) motivation and behavior, (c) neural development, (d) cognition, (e) neuroendocrine function, and (f) physical health and wellness. Using a developmental science perspective, we summarize key changes across these six domains to underscore the promise for the gut microbiome to bidirectionally influence and transform adolescent development.
Social  Joint effects of pregnancy, sociocultural, and environmental factors on early life gut microbiome structure and diversity The joint impact of pregnancy, environmental, and sociocultural exposures on early life gut microbiome is not yet well-characterized, especially in racially and socioeconomically diverse populations. Gut microbiota of 298 children from a Detroit-based birth cohort were profiled using 16S rRNA sequencing: 130 neonates (median age = 1.2 months) and 168 infants (median age = 6.6 months). Multiple factors were associated with neonatal gut microbiome composition in both single- and multi-factor models, with independent contributions of maternal race-ethnicity, breastfeeding, mode of delivery, marital status, exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, and indoor pets. These findings were consistent in the infants, and networks demonstrating the shared impact of factors on gut microbial composition also showed notable topological similarity between neonates and infants. Further, latent groups defined by these factors explained additional variation, highlighting the importance of combinatorial effects. Our findings also have implications for studies investigating the impact of the early life gut microbiota on disease.
Social  Linking metacommunity theory and symbiont evolutionary ecology Processes that occur both within and between hosts can influence the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of symbionts, a broad term that includes parasitic and disease-causing organisms. Metacommunity theory can integrate these local- and regional-scale dynamics to explore symbiont community composition patterns across space. In this article I emphasize that symbionts should be incorporated into the metacommunity concept. I highlight the utility of metacommunity theory by discussing practical and general benefits that emerge from considering symbionts in a metacommunity framework. Specifically, investigating the local and regional drivers of symbiont community and metacommunity structure will lead to a more holistic understanding of symbiont ecology and evolution and could reveal novel insights into the roles of symbiont communities in mediating host health.
Social  Microbiome 101: Studying, Analyzing, and Interpreting Gut Microbiome Data for Clinicians PDF | Advances in technical capabilities for reading out complex human microbiomes are leading to an explosion of microbiome research, leading in turn to intense interest among clinicians in applying these techniques to their patients. In this review, we discuss the content of the...
Social  Post-weaning social isolation of rats leads to long-term disruption of the gut microbiota-immune-brain axis Early-life stress is an established risk for the development of psychiatric disorders. Post-weaning isolation rearing of rats produces lasting developmental changes in behavior and brain function that may have translational pathophysiological relevance to alterations seen in schizophrenia, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Accumulating evidence supports the premise that gut microbiota influence brain development and function by affecting inflammatory mediators, the hypothalamic–pituitaryadrenal axis and neurotransmission, but there is little knowledge of whether the microbiota-gut-brain axis might contribute to the development of schizophrenia-related behaviors. To this end the effects of social isolation (SI; a well-validated animal model for schizophrenia)-induced changes in rat behavior were correlated with alterations in gut microbiota, hippocampal neurogenesis and brain cytokine levels. Twenty-four male Lister hooded rats were housed in social groups (group-housed, GH, 3 littermates per cage) or alone (SI) from weaning (post-natal day 24) for four weeks before recording open field exploration, locomotor activity/novel object discrimination (NOD), elevated plus maze, conditioned freezing response (CFR) and restraint stress at one week intervals. Post-mortem caecal microbiota composition, cortical and hippocampal cytokines and neurogenesis were correlated to indices of behavioral changes. SI rats were hyperactive in the open field and locomotor activity chambers traveling further than GH controls in the less aversive peripheral zone. While SI rats showed few alterations in plus maze or NOD they froze for significantly less time than GH following conditioning in the CFR paradigm, consistent with impaired associative learning and memory. SI rats had significantly fewer BrdU/NeuN positive cells in the dentate gyrus than GH controls. SI rats had altered microbiota composition with increases in Actinobacteria and decreases in the class Clostridia compared to GH controls. Differences were also noted at genus level. Positive correlations were seen between microbiota, hippocampal IL-6 and IL-10, conditioned freezing and open field exploration. Adverse early-life stress resulting from continuous SI increased several indices of ‘anxiety-like’ behavior and impaired associative learning and memory accompanied by changes to gut microbiota, reduced hippocampal IL-6, IL-10 and neurogenesis. This study suggests that early-life stress may produce long-lasting changes in gut microbiota contributing to development of abnormal neuronal and endocrine function and behavior which could play a pivotal role in the aetiology of psychiatric illness. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Sexually dimorphic effects of prenatal exposure to propionic acid and lipopolysaccharide on social behavior in neonatal, adolescent, and adult rats: Implications for autism spectrum disorders Emerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiome plays an important role in immune functioning, behavioral regulation and neurodevelopment. Altered microbiome composition, including altered short chain fatty acids, and/or immune system dysfunction, may contribute to neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorders (ASD), with some children with ASD exhibiting both abnormal gut bacterial metabolite composition and immune system dysfunction. This study describes the effects of prenatal propionic acid (PPA), a short chain fatty acid and metabolic product of many antibiotic resistant enteric bacteria, and of prenatal lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a bacterial mimetic and microbiome component, on social behavior in male and female neonatal, adolescent and adult rats. Pregnant Long–Evans rats were injected once a day with either a low level of PPA (500 mg/kg SC) on gestation days G12–16, LPS (50 μg/kg SC) on G12, or vehicle control on G12 or G12–16. Sex- and age-specific, subtle effects on behavior were observed. Both male and female PPA treated pups were impaired in a test of their nest seeking response, suggesting impairment in olfactory-mediated neonatal social recognition. As well, adolescent males, born to PPA treated dams, approached a novel object more than control animals and showed increased levels of locomotor activity compared to prenatal PPA females. Prenatal LPS produced subtle impairments in social behavior in adult male and female rats. These findings raise the possibility that brief prenatal exposure to elevated levels of microbiome products, such as PPA or LPS, can subtly influence neonatal, adolescent and adult social behavior. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Social networks, cooperative breeding, and the human milk microbiome Objectives: We present the first available data on the human milk microbiome (HMM) from small-scale societies (hunter-gatherers and horticulturalists in the Central African Republic [CAR]) and explore relationships among subsistence type and seasonality on HMM diversity and composition. Additionally, as humans are cooperative breeders and, throughout our evolutionary history and today, we rear offspring within social networks, we examine associations between the social environment and the HMM. Childrearing and breastfeeding exist in a biosocial nexus, which we hypothesize influences the HMM.; Methods: Milk samples from hunter-gatherer and horticultural mothers (n = 41) collected over two seasons, were analyzed for their microbial composition. A subsample of these women's infants (n = 33) also participated in detailed naturalistic behavioral observations which identified the breadth of infants' social and caregiving networks and the frequency of contact they had with caregivers.; Results: Analyses of milk produced by CAR women indicated that HMM diversity and community composition were related to the size of the mother-infant dyad's social network and frequency of care that infants receive. The abundance of some microbial taxa also varied significantly across populations and seasons. Alpha diversity, however, was not related to subsistence type or seasonality.; Conclusion: While the origins of the HMM are not fully understood, our results provide evidence regarding possible feedback loops among the infant, the mother, and the mother's social network that might influence HMM composition. (© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.)
Social  Social skills deficits in autism spectrum disorder: Potential biological origins and progress in developing therapeutic agents Autism spectrum disorder is defined by two core symptoms: a deficit in social communication and the presence of repetitive behaviors and/or restricted interests. Currently, there is no US Food and Drug Administration-approved drug for these core symptoms. This article reviews the biological origins of the social function deficit associated with autism spectrum disorder and the drug therapies with the potential to treat this deficit. A review of the history of autism demonstrates that a deficit in social interaction has been the defining feature of the concept of autism from its conception. Abnormalities identified in early social skill development and an overview of the pathophysiology abnormalities associated with autism spectrum disorder are discussed as are the abnormalities in brain circuits associated with the social function deficit. Previous and ongoing clinical trials examining agents that have the potential to improve social deficits associated with autism spectrum disorder are discussed in detail. This discussion reveals that agents such as oxytocin and propranolol are particularly promising and undergoing active investigation, while other agents such as vasopressin agonists and antagonists are being activity investigated but have limited published evidence at this time. In addition, agents such as bumetanide and manipulation of the enteric microbiome using microbiota transfer therapy appear to have promising effects on core autism spectrum disorder symptoms including social function. Other pertinent issues associated with developing treatments in autism spectrum disorder, such as disease heterogeneity, high placebo response rates, trial design, and the most appropriate way of assessing effects on social skills (outcome measures), are also discussed. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  Soil biodiversity and human health Soil biodiversity is increasingly recognized as providing benefits to human health because it can suppress disease-causing soil organisms and provide clean air, water and food. Poor land-management practices and environmental change are, however, affecting belowground communities globally, and the resulting declines in soil biodiversity reduce and impair these benefits. Importantly, current research indicates that soil biodiversity can be maintained and partially restored if managed sustainably. Promoting the ecological complexity and robustness of soil biodiversity through improved management practices represents an underutilized resource with the ability to improve human health.
Social  Strain differences in the susceptibility to the gut–brain axis and neurobehavioural alterations induced by maternal immune activation in mice There is a growing realization that the severity of the core symptoms of autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia is associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction. Nonetheless, the mechanisms underlying such comorbidities remain unknown. Several genetic and environmental factors have been linked to a higher susceptibility to neurodevelopmental abnormalities. The maternal immune activation (MIA) rodent model is a valuable tool for elucidating the basis of this interaction. We induced MIA with polyinosinic–polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) at gestational day 12.5 and assessed behavioural, physiological and molecular aspects relevant to the gut–brain axis in the offspring of an outbred (NIH Swiss) and an inbred (C57BL6/J) mouse strain. Our results showed that the specific MIA protocol employed induces social deficits in both strains. However, alterations in anxiety and depression-like behaviours were more pronounced in NIH Swiss mice. These strain-specific behavioural effects in the NIH Swiss mice were associated with marked changes in important components of gut–brain axis communication: the endocrine response to stress and gut permeability. In addition, MIA-induced changes in vasopressin receptor 1a mRNA expression in the hypothalamus were observed in NIH Swiss mice only. Taken together, these data suggest that genetic background is a critical factor in susceptibility to the gut–brain axis effects induced by MIA. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved)
Social  The Microbiome in Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Psychology and microbiology make unlikely friends, but the past decade has witnessed striking bidirectional associations between intrinsic gut microbes and the brain, relationships with largely untested psychological implications. Although microbe–brain relationships are receiving a great deal of attention in biomedicine and neuroscience, psychologists have yet to join this journey. Here, we illustrate microbial associations with emotion, cognition, and social behavior. However, despite considerable enthusiasm and potential, technical and conceptual limitations including low statistical power and lack of mechanistic descriptions prevent a nuanced understanding of microbiome–brain–behavior relationships. Our goal is to describe microbial effects in domains of cognitive significance and the associated challenges to stimulate interdisciplinary research on the contribution of this hidden kingdom to psychological processes.
Social  The Microbiome-Gut-Behavior Axis: Crosstalk Between the Gut Microbiome and Oligodendrocytes Modulates Behavioral Responses. Environmental and dietary stimuli have always been implicated in brain development and behavioral responses. The gut, being the major portal of communication with the external environment, has recently been brought to the forefront of this interaction with the establishment of a gut-brain axis in health and disease. Moreover, recent breakthroughs in germ-free and antibiotic-treated mice have demonstrated the significant impact of the microbiome in modulating behavioral responses in mice and have established a more specific microbiome-gut-behavior axis. One of the mechanisms by which this axis affects social behavior is by regulating myelination at the prefrontal cortex, an important site for complex cognitive behavior planning and decision-making. The prefrontal cortex exhibits late myelination of its axonal projections that could extend into the third decade of life in humans, which make it susceptible to external influences, such as microbial metabolites. Changes in the gut microbiome were shown to alter the composition of the microbial metabolome affecting highly permeable bioactive compounds, such as p-cresol, which could impair oligodendrocyte differentiation. Dysregulated myelination in the prefrontal cortex is then able to affect behavioral responses in mice, shifting them towards social isolation. The reduced social interactions could then limit microbial exchange, which could otherwise pose a threat to the survival of the existing microbial community in the host and, thus, provide an evolutionary advantage to the specific microbial community. In this review, we will analyze the microbiome-gut-behavior axis, describe the interactions between the gut microbiome and oligodendrocytes and highlight their role in the modulation of social behavior.
Social  Acne, the Skin Microbiome, and Antibiotic Treatment Acne vulgaris is a chronic skin disorder involving hair follicles and sebaceous glands. Multiple factors contribute to the disease, including skin microbes. The skin microbiome in the follicle is composed of a diverse group of microorganisms. Among them, Propionibacterium acnes and Malassezia spp. have been linked to acne development through their influence on sebum secretion, comedone formation, and inflammatory response. Antibiotics targeting P. acnes have been the mainstay in acne treatment for the past four decades. Among them, macrolides, clindamycin, and tetracyclines are the most widely prescribed. As antibiotic resistance becomes an increasing concern in clinical practice, understanding the skin microbiome associated with acne and the effects of antibiotic use on the skin commensals is highly relevant and critical to clinicians. In this review, we summarize recent studies of the composition and dynamics of the skin microbiome in acne and the effects of antibiotic treatment on skin microbes.;
Social  Agricultural soils, pesticides and microbial diversity Pesticide effects on microbial community structure and activity in soil are reviewed, showing that methodological developments within the past few years have generated new possibilities for assessing pesticide effects. The first example is the use of mRNA quantification showing that nitrification processes are indeed very susceptible to some pesticides, and that there is correlation between the mRNA transcript quantity and the nitrification rate. The second example is devoted to pesticides influencing microbial community structures. The emergence of high throughput sequencing techniques now allows a more detailed analysis of which bacterial species are influenced.
Social  Among older adults, age-related changes in the stool microbiome differ by HIV-1 serostatus Background HIV-1 infection and physiological aging are independently linked to elevated systemic inflammation and changes in enteric microbial communities (dysbiosis). However, knowledge of the direct effect of HIV infection on the aging microbiome and potential links to systemic inflammation is lacking. Methods In a cross-sectional study of older people living with HIV (PLWH) (median age 61.5 years, N = 14) and uninfected controls (median 58 years, n = 22) we compared stool microbiota, levels of microbial metabolites (short-chain fatty acid levels, SCFA) and systemic inflammatory biomarkers by HIV serostatus and age. Findings HIV and age were independently associated with distinct changes in the stool microbiome. For example, abundances of Enterobacter and Paraprevotella were higher and Eggerthella and Roseburia lower among PLWH compared to uninfected controls. Age-related microbiome changes also differed by HIV serostatus. Some bacteria with inflammatory potential (e.g. Escherichia) increased with age among PLWH, but not controls. Stool SCFA levels were similar between the two groups yet patterns of associations between individual microbial taxa and SCFA levels differed. Abundance of various genera including Escherichia and Bifidobacterium positively associated with inflammatory biomarkers (e.g. soluble Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptors) among PLWH, but not among controls. Interpretation The age effect on the gut microbiome and associations between microbiota and microbial metabolites or systemic inflammation differed based on HIV serostatus, raising important implications for the impact of therapeutic interventions, dependent on HIV serostatus or age.
Social  An Underground Revolution: Biodiversity and Soil Ecological Engineering for Agricultural Sustainability Soil organisms are an integral component of ecosystems, but their activities receive little recognition in agricultural management strategies. Here we synthesize the potential of soil organisms to enhance ecosystem service delivery and demonstrate that soil biodiversity promotes multiple ecosystem functions simultaneously (i.e., ecosystem multifunctionality). We apply the concept of ecological intensification to soils and we develop strategies for targeted exploitation of soil biological traits. We compile promising approaches to enhance agricultural sustainability through the promotion of soil biodiversity and targeted management of soil community composition. We present soil ecological engineering as a concept to generate human land-use systems, which can serve immediate human needs while minimizing environmental impacts.
Social  Comparative metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analyses reveal the breed effect on the rumen microbiome and its associations with feed efficiency in beef cattle Microorganisms are responsible for fermentation within the rumen and have been reported to contribute to the variation in feed efficiency of cattle. However, to what extent the breed affects the rumen microbiome and its association with host feed efficiency is unknown. Here, rumen microbiomes of beef cattle (n = 48) from three breeds (Angus, Charolais, Kinsella composite hybrid) with high and low feed efficiency were explored using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, aiming to identify differences between functional potentials and activities of same rumen microbiomes and to evaluate the effects of host breed and feed efficiency on the rumen microbiome.
Social  Consequences of colonialism: A microbial perspective to contemporary Indigenous health. Nearly all Indigenous populations today suffer from worse health than their non-Indigenous counterparts, and despite interventions against known factors, this health "gap" has not improved. The human microbiome-the beneficial, diverse microbial communities that live on and within the human body-is a crucial component in developing and maintaining normal physiological health. Disrupting this ecosystem has repercussions for microbial functionality, and thus, human health. In this article, we propose that modern-day Indigenous population health may suffer from disrupted microbial ecosystems as a consequence of historical colonialism. Colonialism may have interrupted the established relationships between the environment, traditional lifeways, and microbiomes, altering the Indigenous microbiome with detrimental health consequences. (© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.)
Social  Delayed differentiation of vaginal and uterine microbiomes in dairy cows developing postpartum endometritis Bacterial overgrowth in the uterus is a normal event after parturition. In contrast to the healthy cow, animals unable to control the infection within 21 days after calving develop postpartum endometritis. Studies on the Microbial Ecology of the bovine reproductive tract have focused on either vaginal or uterine microbiomes. This is the first study that compares both microbiomes in the same animals. Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism of the 16S rRNA gene showed that despite large differences associated to individuals, a shared community exist in vagina and uterus during the postpartum period. The largest changes associated with development of endometritis were observed at 7 days postpartum, a time when vaginal and uterine microbiomes were most similar. 16S rRNA pyrosequencing of the vaginal microbiome at 7 days postpartum showed at least three different microbiome types that were associated with later development of postpartum endometritis. All three microbiome types featured reduced bacterial diversity. Taken together, the above findings support a scenario where disruption of the compartmentalization of the reproductive tract during parturition results in the dispersal and mixing of the vaginal and uterine microbiomes, which subsequently are subject to differentiation. This differentiation was observed early postpartum in the healthy cow. In contrast, loss of bacterial diversity and dominance of the microbiome by few bacterial taxa were related to a delayed succession at 7DPP in cows that at 21 DPP or later were diagnosed with endometritis.;
Social  Dose-dependent impact of oxytetracycline on the veal calf microbiome and resistome Background: Antibiotic therapy is commonly used in animal agriculture. Antibiotics excreted by the animals can contaminate farming environments, resulting in long term exposure of animals to sub-inhibitory levels of antibiotics. Little is known on the effect of this exposure on antibiotic resistance. In this study, we aimed to investigate the long term effects of sub-inhibitory levels of antibiotics on the gut microbiota composition and resistome of veal calves in vivo. Forty-two veal calves were randomly assigned to three groups. The first group (OTC-high) received therapeutic oral dosages of 1 g oxytetracycline (OTC), twice per day, during 5 days. The second group (OTC-low) received an oral dose of OTC of 100-200 μg per day during 7 weeks, mimicking animal exposure to environmental contamination. The third group (CTR) did not receive OTC, serving as unexposed control. Antibiotic residue levels were determined over time. The temporal effects on the gut microbiota and antibiotic resistance gene abundance was analysed by metagenomic sequencing.; Results: In the therapeutic group, OTC levels exceeded MIC values. The low group remained at sub-inhibitory levels. The control group did not reach any significant OTC levels. 16S rRNA gene-based analysis revealed significant changes in the calf gut microbiota. Time-related changes accounted for most of the variation in the sequence data. Therapeutic application of OTC had transient effect, significantly impacting gut microbiota composition between day 0 and day 2. By metagenomic sequence analysis we identified six antibiotic resistance genes representing three gene classes (tetM, floR and mel) that differed in relative abundance between any of the intervention groups and the control. qPCR was used to validate observations made by metagenomic sequencing, revealing a peak of tetM abundance at day 28-35 in the OTC-high group. No increase in resistance genes abundance was seen in the OTC-low group.; Conclusions: Under the conditions tested, sub-therapeutic administration of OTC did not result in increased tetM resistance levels as observed in the therapeutic group.;
Social  Engineering root microbiomes for healthier crops and soils using beneficial, environmentally safe bacteria The Green Revolution developed new crop varieties, which greatly improved food security worldwide. However, the growth of these plants relied heavily on chemical fertilizers and pesticides, which have led to an overuse of synthetic fertilizers, insecticides, and herbicides with serious environmental consequences and negative effects on human health. Environmentally friendly plant-growth-promoting methods to replace our current reliance on synthetic chemicals and to develop more sustainable agricultural practices to offset the damage caused by many agrochemicals are proposed herein. The increased use of bioinoculants, which consist of microorganisms that establish synergies with target crops and influence production and yield by enhancing plant growth, controlling disease, and providing critical mineral nutrients, is a potential solution. The microorganisms found in bioinoculants are often bacteria or fungi that reside within either external or internal plant microbiomes. However, before they can be used routinely in agriculture, these microbes must be confirmed as nonpathogenic strains that promote plant growth and survival. In this article, besides describing approaches for discovering plant-growth-promoting bacteria in various environments, including phytomicrobiomes and soils, we also discuss methods to evaluate their safety for the environment and for human health.
Social  Joint effects of pregnancy, sociocultural, and environmental factors on early life gut microbiome structure and diversity The joint impact of pregnancy, environmental, and sociocultural exposures on early life gut microbiome is not yet well-characterized, especially in racially and socioeconomically diverse populations. Gut microbiota of 298 children from a Detroit-based birth cohort were profiled using 16S rRNA sequencing: 130 neonates (median age = 1.2 months) and 168 infants (median age = 6.6 months). Multiple factors were associated with neonatal gut microbiome composition in both single- and multi-factor models, with independent contributions of maternal race-ethnicity, breastfeeding, mode of delivery, marital status, exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, and indoor pets. These findings were consistent in the infants, and networks demonstrating the shared impact of factors on gut microbial composition also showed notable topological similarity between neonates and infants. Further, latent groups defined by these factors explained additional variation, highlighting the importance of combinatorial effects. Our findings also have implications for studies investigating the impact of the early life gut microbiota on disease.
Social  Mode of birth and social inequalities in health: The effect of maternal education and access to hospital care on cesarean delivery Access to health care is an important factor in explaining health inequalities. This study focuses on the issue of access to health care as a driving force behind the social discrepancies in cesarean delivery using data from 707 newborn children in the 2006–2011 birth cohorts of the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP). Data on individual birth outcomes are linked to hospital data using extracts of the quality assessment reports of nearly all German hospitals. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are used to assess hospital service clusters within a 20-km radius buffer around mother׳s homes. Logistic regression models adjusting for maternal characteristics indicate that the likelihood to deliver by a cesarean section increases for the least educated women when they face constraints with regard to access to hospital care. No differences between the education groups are observed when access to obstetric care is high, thus a high access to hospital care seems to balance out health inequalities that are related to differences in education. The results emphasize the importance of focusing on unequal access to hospital care in explaining differences in birth outcomes.
Social  Plant microbiome-dependent immune enhancing action of Echinacea purpurea is enhanced by soil organic matter content We previously demonstrated that extracts from Echinacea purpurea material varied substantially in their ability to activate macrophages in vitro and that this variation was due to differences in their content of bacterial components. The purpose of the current study was to identify soil conditions (organic matter, nitrogen, and moisture content) that alter the macrophage activation potential of E. purpurea and determine whether these changes in activity correspond to shifts in the plant-associated microbiome. Increased levels of soil organic matter significantly enhanced macrophage activation exhibited by the root extracts of E. purpurea (p < 0.0001). A change in soil organic matter content from 5.6% to 67.4% led to a 4.2-fold increase in the macrophage activation potential of extracts from E. purpurea. Bacterial communities also differed significantly between root materials cultivated in soils with different levels of organic matter (p < 0.001). These results indicate that the level of soil organic matter is an agricultural factor that can alter the bacterial microbiome, and thereby the activity, of E. purpurea roots. Since ingestion of bacterial preparation (e.g., probiotics) is reported to impact human health, it is likely that the medicinal value of Echinacea is influenced by cultivation conditions that alter its associated bacterial community.
Social  Soil biodiversity and human health Soil biodiversity is increasingly recognized as providing benefits to human health because it can suppress disease-causing soil organisms and provide clean air, water and food. Poor land-management practices and environmental change are, however, affecting belowground communities globally, and the resulting declines in soil biodiversity reduce and impair these benefits. Importantly, current research indicates that soil biodiversity can be maintained and partially restored if managed sustainably. Promoting the ecological complexity and robustness of soil biodiversity through improved management practices represents an underutilized resource with the ability to improve human health.
Social  The Airplane Cabin Microbiome Serving over three billion passengers annually, air travel serves as a conduit for infectious disease spread, including emerging infections and pandemics. Over two dozen cases of in-flight transmissions have been documented. To understand these risks, a characterization of the airplane cabin microbiome is necessary. Our study team collected 229 environmental samples on ten transcontinental US flights with subsequent 16S rRNA sequencing. We found that bacterial communities were largely derived from human skin and oral commensals, as well as environmental generalist bacteria. We identified clear signatures for air versus touch surface microbiome, but not for individual types of touch surfaces. We also found large flight-to-flight beta diversity variations with no distinguishing signatures of individual flights, rather a high between-flight diversity for all touch surfaces and particularly for air samples. There was no systematic pattern of microbial community change from pre- to post-flight. Our findings are similar to those of other recent studies of the microbiome of built environments. In summary, the airplane cabin microbiome has immense airplane to airplane variability. The vast majority of airplane-associated microbes are human commensals or non-pathogenic, and the results provide a baseline for non-crisis-level airplane microbiome conditions.
Social  The Effect of Diagnosis-Related Group Payment System on Quality of Care in the Field of Obstetrics and Gynecology among Korean Tertiary Hospitals Purpose: To examine changes in clinical practice patterns following the introduction of diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) under the fee-for-service payment system in July 2013 among Korean tertiary hospitals and to evaluate its effect on the quality of hospital care.; Materials and Methods: Using the 2012-2014 administrative database from National Health Insurance Service claim data, we reviewed medical information for 160400 patients who underwent cesarean sections (C-secs), hysterectomies, or adnexectomies at 43 tertiary hospitals. We compared changes in several variables, including length of stay, spillover, readmission rate, and the number of simultaneous and emergency operations, from before to after introduction of the DRGs.; Results: DRGs significantly reduced the length of stay of patients undergoing C-secs, hysterectomies, and adnexectomies (8.0±6.9 vs. 6.0±2.3 days, 7.4±3.5 vs. 6.4±2.7 days, 6.3±3.6 vs. 6.2±4.0 days, respectively, all p<0.001). Readmission rates decreased after introduction of DRGs (2.13% vs. 1.19% for C-secs, 4.51% vs. 3.05% for hysterectomies, 4.77% vs. 2.65% for adnexectomies, all p<0.001). Spillover rates did not change. Simultaneous surgeries, such as colpopexy and transobturator-tape procedures, during hysterectomies decreased, while colporrhaphy during hysterectomies and adnexectomies or myomectomies during C-secs did not change. The number of emergency operations for hysterectomies and adnexectomies decreased.; Conclusion: Implementation of DRGs in the field of obstetrics and gynecology among Korean tertiary hospitals led to reductions in the length of stay without increasing outpatient visits and readmission rates. The number of simultaneous surgeries requiring expensive operative instruments and emergency operations decreased after introduction of the DRGs.; © Copyright: Yonsei University College of Medicine 2018.
Social  The effects of metabolic syndrome, obesity, and the gut microbiome on load-induced osteoarthritis Summary Objective Metabolic syndrome is characterized by obesity, hyperglycemia, hypertension, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. Metabolic syndrome is associated with osteoarthritis (OA), but it is unclear if the association is attributable to increased mechanical loading on joints caused by obesity or other aspects of metabolic syndrome. Here we examined the effects of altered metabolism, obesity, and the gut microbiome on load-induced OA. Design Cartilage damage was induced through cyclic compressive loading in four groups of adult male mice: Toll-like receptor-5 deficient (TLR5KO) mice that develop metabolic syndrome due to alterations in the gut microbiome, TLR5KO mice submitted to chronic antibiotics to prevent metabolic syndrome (TLR5KOΔMicrobiota), C57BL/6J mice fed a high fat diet to cause obesity (HFD), and untreated C57BL/6J mice (WT). Loading was applied for 2 weeks (n = 10–11/group) or 6 weeks (n = 10–11/group). Results After 2 weeks of loading, cartilage damage (OARSI score) was not different among groups. After 6 weeks of loading, HFD mice had increased load-induced cartilage damage, while TLR5KO mice had cartilage damage comparable to WT mice. TLR5KOΔMicrobiota mice had less cartilage damage than other groups. HFD mice had elevated serum inflammatory markers. Each group had a distinct gut microbiome composition. Conclusions Severe obesity increased load-induced cartilage damage, while milder changes in adiposity/metabolic syndrome seen in TLR5KO mice did not. Furthermore, the effects of systemic inflammation/obesity on cartilage damage depend on the duration of mechanical loading. Lastly, reduced cartilage damage in the TLR5KOΔMicrobiota mice suggests that the gut microbiome may influence cartilage pathology
Social  The Global Syndemic of Obesity, Undernutrition, and Climate Change: The Lancet Commission report Malnutrition in all its forms, including obesity, undernutrition, and other dietary risks, is the leading cause of poor health globally. In the near future, the health effects of climate change will considerably compound these health challenges. Climate change can be considered a pandemic because of its sweeping effects on the health of humans and the natural systems we depend on (ie, planetary health). These three pandemics—obesity, undernutrition, and climate change—represent The Global Syndemic that affects most people in every country and region worldwide.
Social  The Gut Microbiome in Adult and Pediatric Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders The importance of gut microbiota in gastrointestinal (GI) physiology was well described, but our ability to study gut microbial ecosystems in their entirety was limited by culture-based methods prior to the sequencing revolution. The advent of high-throughput sequencing opened new avenues, allowing us to study gut microbial communities as an aggregate, independent of our ability to culture individual microbes. Early studies focused on association of changes in gut microbiota with different disease states, which was necessary to identify a potential role for microbes and generate novel hypotheses. Over the past few years the field has moved beyond associations to better understand the mechanistic implications of the microbiome in the pathophysiology of complex diseases. This movement also has resulted in a shift in our focus toward therapeutic strategies, which rely on better understanding the mediators of gut microbiota-host cross-talk. It is not surprising the gut microbiome has been implicated in the pathogenesis of functional gastrointestinal disorders given its role in modulating physiological processes such as immune development, GI motility and secretion, epithelial barrier integrity, and brain-gut communication. In this review, we focus on the current state of knowledge and future directions in microbiome research as it pertains to functional gastrointestinal disorders. We summarize the factors that help shape the gut microbiome in human beings. We discuss data from animal models and human studies to highlight existing paradigms regarding the mechanisms underlying microbiota-mediated alterations in physiological processes and their relevance in human interventions. While translation of microbiome science is still in its infancy, the outlook is optimistic and we are advancing in the right direction toward precise mechanism-based microbiota therapies.; Copyright © 2019 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Social  The Human Microbiome and Public Health: Social and Ethical Rapid advances in human microbiome research point to an increasing range of health outcomes related to the composition of an individual's microbiome. To date, much research has focused on individual health, with a paucity of attention to public health implications. This is a critical oversight owing to the potentially shared nature of the human microbiome across communities and vertical and horizontal mechanisms for transferring microbiomes among humans. We explored some key ethical and social implications of human microbiome research for public health. We focused on (1) insights from microbiome research about damage to individual and shared microbiomes from prevalent societal practices, and (2) ethical and social implications of novel technologies developed on the basis of emerging microbiome science.
Social  The microbiome beyond the horizon of ecological and evolutionary theory The ecological and evolutionary study of community formation, diversity, and stability is rooted in general theory and reinforced by decades of system-specific empirical work. Deploying these ideas to study the assembly, complexity, and dynamics of microbial communities living in and on eukaryotes has proved seductive, but challenging. The success of this research endeavour depends on our capacity to observe and characterize the distributions, abundances, and functional traits of microbiota, representing an array of technical and analytical challenges. Furthermore, a number of unique characteristics of microbial species, such as horizontal gene transfer, the production of public goods, toxin and antibiotic production, rapid evolution, and feedbacks between the microbiome and its host, are not easily accommodated by current ecological and evolutionary theory. Here we highlight potential pitfalls in the application of existing theoretical tools without careful consideration of the unique complexities of the microbiome, focusing particularly on the issue of human health, and anchoring our discussion in existing empirical evidence.
Social  The microbiome in patients with atopic dermatitis As an interface with the environment, the skin is a complex ecosystem colonized by many microorganisms that coexist in an established balance. The cutaneous microbiome inhibits colonization with pathogens, such as Staphylococcus aureus, and is a crucial component for function of the epidermal barrier. Moreover, crosstalk between commensals and the immune system is now recognized because microorganisms can modulate both innate and adaptive immune responses. Host-commensal interactions also have an effect on the developing immune system in infants and, subsequently, the occurrence of diseases, such as asthma and atopic dermatitis (AD). Later in life, the cutaneous microbiome contributes to the development and course of skin disease. Accordingly, in patients with AD, a decrease in microbiome diversity correlates with disease severity and increased colonization with pathogenic bacteria, such as S aureus. Early clinical studies suggest that topical application of commensal organisms (eg, Staphylococcus hominis or Roseomonas mucosa) reduces AD severity, which supports an important role for commensals in decreasing S aureus colonization in patients with AD. Advancing knowledge of the cutaneous microbiome and its function in modulating the course of skin disorders, such as AD, might result in novel therapeutic strategies.
Social  The Microbiome Stress Project: Toward a Global Meta-Analysis of Environmental Stressors and Their Effects on Microbial Communities Microbial community structure is highly sensitive to natural (e.g. drought, temperature, fire) and anthropogenic (e.g. heavy metal exposure, land-use change) stressors. However, despite an immense amount of data generated, systematic, cross-environment analyses of microbiome responses to multiple disturbances are lacking. Here, we present the Microbiome Stress Project, an open-access database of environmental and host-associated 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing studies collected to facilitate cross-study analyses of microbiome responses to stressors. This database will comprise published and unpublished datasets re-processed from the raw sequences into exact sequence variants using our standardized computational pipeline. Our database will provide insight into general response patterns of microbiome diversity, structure, and stability to environmental stressors. It will also enable the identification of cross-study associations between single or multiple stressors and specific microbial clades. Here, we present a proof-of-concept meta-analysis of 606 microbiomes (from nine studies) to assess microbial community responses to: (1) one stressor in one environment: soil warming across a variety of soil types, (2) a range of stressors in one environment: soil microbiome responses to a comprehensive set of stressors (incl. temperature, diesel, antibiotics, land use change, drought, and heavy metals), (3) one stressor across a range of environments: copper exposure effects on soil, sediment, activated-sludge reactors, and gut environments, and (4) the general trends of microbiome stressor responses. Overall, we found that stressor exposure significantly decreases microbiome alpha diversity and increases beta diversity (community dispersion) across a range of environments and stressor types. We observed a hump-shaped relationship between microbial community resistance to stressors (i.e. the average pairwise similarity score between the control and stressed communities) and alpha diversity. We used Phylofactor to identify microbial clades and individual taxa as potential bioindicators of copper contamination across different environments. Using standardized computational and statistical methods, the Microbiome Stress Project will leverage thousands of existing datasets to build a general framework for how microbial communities respond to environmental stress.
Social  Acne, the Skin Microbiome, and Antibiotic Treatment Acne vulgaris is a chronic skin disorder involving hair follicles and sebaceous glands. Multiple factors contribute to the disease, including skin microbes. The skin microbiome in the follicle is composed of a diverse group of microorganisms. Among them, Propionibacterium acnes and Malassezia spp. have been linked to acne development through their influence on sebum secretion, comedone formation, and inflammatory response. Antibiotics targeting P. acnes have been the mainstay in acne treatment for the past four decades. Among them, macrolides, clindamycin, and tetracyclines are the most widely prescribed. As antibiotic resistance becomes an increasing concern in clinical practice, understanding the skin microbiome associated with acne and the effects of antibiotic use on the skin commensals is highly relevant and critical to clinicians. In this review, we summarize recent studies of the composition and dynamics of the skin microbiome in acne and the effects of antibiotic treatment on skin microbes.;
Social  Biodiversity loss and its impact on humanity The most unique feature of Earth is the existence of life, and the most extraordinary feature of life is its diversity. Approximately 9 million types of plants, animals, protists and fungi inhabit the Earth. So, too, do 7 billion people. Two decades ago, at the first Earth Summit, the vast majority of the world’s nations declared that human actions were dismantling the Earth’s ecosystems, eliminating genes, species and biological traits at an alarming rate. This observation led to the question of how such loss of biological diversity will alter the functioning of ecosystems and their ability to provide society with the goods and services needed to prosper.
Social  Commercialization of obstetric and neonatal care in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: A study of the variability in user fees in Lubumbashi, 2014 Objective: In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, insufficient state financing of the health system produced weak progress toward targets of Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5. In Lubumbashi, almost all women pay out-of-pocket for obstetric and neonatal care. As no standard pricing system has been implemented, there is great variation in payments related to childbirth between health facilities and even within the same facility. This work investigates the determinants of this variation.; Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional study including women from admission through discharge at 92 maternity wards in Lubumbashi in March 2014. The women's payments were collected and validated by triangulating interviews of new mothers and nurses with document review. We studied payments related to delivery from the perspective of women delivering. The total was the sum of the payments linked to seeking and accessing care and transport of the woman and companion. The determinants were assessed by multilevel regression.; Results: Median payments for delivery varied by type: for an uncomplicated vaginal delivery, US$45 (range, US$17-260); for a complicated vaginal delivery US$60 (US$16-304); and for a Cesarean section, US$338 (US$163-782). Vaginal delivery was more expensive at health centers than in general referral hospitals or polyclinics. Cesarean sections done in corporate polyclinics and hospitals were more expensive than those done in the general referral hospitals. Referral of delivering women, use of more highly trained personnel, and a longer stay in the maternity unit contributed to higher expenses. A vaginal delivery in the private sector was more cost-effective than in the public sector.; Conclusion: To guarantee universal coverage of high-quality care, we suggest that the government and funders in DRC support health insurance and risk pool initiatives, and introduce and institutionalize free mother and infant care.;
Social  Comparative metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analyses reveal the breed effect on the rumen microbiome and its associations with feed efficiency in beef cattle Microorganisms are responsible for fermentation within the rumen and have been reported to contribute to the variation in feed efficiency of cattle. However, to what extent the breed affects the rumen microbiome and its association with host feed efficiency is unknown. Here, rumen microbiomes of beef cattle (n = 48) from three breeds (Angus, Charolais, Kinsella composite hybrid) with high and low feed efficiency were explored using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, aiming to identify differences between functional potentials and activities of same rumen microbiomes and to evaluate the effects of host breed and feed efficiency on the rumen microbiome.
Social  Consequences of colonialism: A microbial perspective to contemporary Indigenous health. Nearly all Indigenous populations today suffer from worse health than their non-Indigenous counterparts, and despite interventions against known factors, this health "gap" has not improved. The human microbiome-the beneficial, diverse microbial communities that live on and within the human body-is a crucial component in developing and maintaining normal physiological health. Disrupting this ecosystem has repercussions for microbial functionality, and thus, human health. In this article, we propose that modern-day Indigenous population health may suffer from disrupted microbial ecosystems as a consequence of historical colonialism. Colonialism may have interrupted the established relationships between the environment, traditional lifeways, and microbiomes, altering the Indigenous microbiome with detrimental health consequences. (© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.)
Social  Cost-effectiveness analysis of natural birth and elective C-section in supplemental health Objective: To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of natural childbirth and elective C-section for normal risk pregnant women.; Methods: The study was conducted from the perspective of supplemental health, a health subsystem that finances private obstetric care, represented in Brazil by health plan operators. The reference populations were normal risk pregnant women, who could undergo natural childbirth or elective C-section, subdivided into primiparous and multiparous women with previous uterine scar. A decision analysis model was constructed including choice of delivery types and health consequences for mother and newborn, from admission for delivery to maternity hospital discharge. Effectiveness measures were identified from the scientific literature, and cost data obtained by consultation with health professionals, health plan operators' pricing tables, and pricing reference publications of health resources.; Results: Natural childbirth was dominant compared with elective C-section for primiparous normal risk pregnant women, presenting lower cost (R$5,210.96 versus R$5,753.54) and better or equal effectiveness for all evaluated outcomes. For multiparous women with previous uterine scar, C-section presented lower cost (R$5,364.07) than natural childbirth (R$5,632.24), and better or equal effectiveness; therefore, C-section is more efficient for this population.; Conclusions: It is necessary to control and audit C-sections without clinical indication, especially with regard to primiparous women, contributing to the management of perinatal care.;
Social  Gut to Brain Dysbiosis: Mechanisms Linking Western Diet Consumption, the Microbiome, and Cognitive Impairment Consumption of a Western Diet (WD) that is high in saturated fat and added sugars negatively impacts cognitive function, particularly mnemonic processes that rely on the integrity of the hippocampus. Emerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiome influences cognitive function via the gut-brain axis, and that WD factors significantly alter the proportions of commensal bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract. Here we review mechanisms through which consuming a WD negatively impacts neurocognitive function, with a particular focus on recent evidence linking the gut microbiome with dietary- and metabolic-associated hippocampal impairment. We highlight evidence linking gut bacteria to altered intestinal permeability and blood brain barrier integrity, thus making the brain more vulnerable to the influx of deleterious substances from the circulation. WD consumption also increases production of endotoxin by commensal bacteria, which may promote neuroinflammation and cognitive dysfunction. Recent findings also show that diet-induced alterations in gut microbiota impair peripheral insulin sensitivity, which is associated with hippocampal neuronal derrangements and associated mnemonic deficits. In some cases treatment with specific probiotics or prebiotics can prevent or reverse some of the deleterious impact of WD consumption on neuropsychological outcomes, indicating that targeting the microbiome may be a successful strategy for combating dietary- and metabolic-associated cognitive impairment.
Social  Impact of Provider Competition under Global Budgeting on the Use of Cesarean Delivery Objective: To examine the impact of provider competition under global budgeting on the use of cesarean delivery in Taiwan.; Data Sources/study Setting: (1) Quarterly inpatient claims data of all clinics and hospitals with birth-related expenses from 2000 to 2008; (2) file of health facilities' basic characteristics; and (3) regional quarterly point values (price conversion index) for clinics and hospitals, respectively, from the fourth quarter in 1999 to the third quarter in 2008, from the Statistics of the National Health Insurance Administration.; Study Design: Panel data of quarterly facility-level cesarean delivery rates with provider characteristics, birth volumes, and regional point values are analyzed with the fractional response model to examine the effect of external price changes on provider behavior in birth delivery services.; Principal Findings: The decline in de facto prices of health services as a result of noncooperative competition under global budgeting is associated with an increase in cesarean delivery rates, with a high degree of response heterogeneity across different types of provider facilities.; Conclusions: While global budgeting is an effective cost containment tool, intensified financial pressures may lead to unintended consequences of compromised quality due to a shift in provider practice in pursuit of financial rewards.; © Health Research and Educational Trust
Social  Normal delivery and cesarean section: cost per brazilian regions, 2015 SUMMARYOBJECTIVE:To describe the number of funds made by the Brazilian National Health System to normal delivery and cesarean procedures, according to the Brazilian regions in 2015, and estimate the cost cutting if the recommendation concerning the prevalence of cesarean deliveries by the World Health Organization (10 to 15%) were respected.METHODS:Secondary analysis of data from the Hospital Information System of the Brazilian National Health System. The variables considered were the type of delivery (cesarean section and normal), geographic region of admission, length of stay and amount paid for admission in 2015.RESULTS:In the year 2015, there were 984,307 admissions to perform labor in the five Brazilian regions, of which 36.2% were cesarean section. The Northeast and Southeast regions were the two regions that had the highest number of normal deliveries and cesarean sections. The overall average hospital stay for delivery was 3.2 days. About R$ 650 million (US$ 208,5 million) were paid, 45% of the total in cesarean deliveries. If the maximum prevalence proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) were considered, there would be a potential reduction in spending in the order of R$ 57.7 million (US$ 18,5 million).CONCLUSIONS:Cesarean sections are above the parameter recommended by the WHO in all Brazilian regions. The Northeast and Southeast had the highest total number of normal and cesarean deliveries and thus the greatest potential reduction in estimated costs (69.6% of all considered reduction).KEYWORDS: Health Policy; Planning and Management; Public Health Policy; Health economics; Natural childbirth; Cesarean section
Social  The Global Syndemic of Obesity, Undernutrition, and Climate Change: The Lancet Commission report Malnutrition in all its forms, including obesity, undernutrition, and other dietary risks, is the leading cause of poor health globally. In the near future, the health effects of climate change will considerably compound these health challenges. Climate change can be considered a pandemic because of its sweeping effects on the health of humans and the natural systems we depend on (ie, planetary health). These three pandemics—obesity, undernutrition, and climate change—represent The Global Syndemic that affects most people in every country and region worldwide.
Social  The microbiome of the built environment and mental health The microbiome of the built environment (MoBE) is a relatively new area of study. While some knowledge has been gained regarding impacts of the MoBE on the human microbiome and disease vulnerability, there is little knowledge of the impacts of the MoBE on mental health. Depending on the specific microbial species involved, the transfer of microorganisms from the built environment to occupant’s cutaneous or mucosal membranes has the potential to increase or disrupt immunoregulation and/or exaggerate or suppress inflammation. Preclinical evidence highlighting the influence of the microbiota on systemic inflammation supports the assertion that microorganisms, including those originating from the built environment, have the potential to either increase or decrease the risk of inflammation-induced psychiatric conditions and their symptom severity. With advanced understanding of both the ecology of the built environment, and its influence on the human microbiome, it may be possible to develop bioinformed strategies for management of the built environment to promote mental health. Here we present a brief summary of microbiome research in both areas and highlight two interdependencies including the following: (1) effects of the MoBE on the human microbiome and (2) potential opportunities for manipulation of the MoBE in order to improve mental health. In addition, we propose future research directions including strategies for assessment of changes in the microbiome of common areas of built environments shared by multiple human occupants, and associated cohort-level changes in the mental health of those who spend time in the buildings. Overall, our understanding of the fields of both the MoBE and influence of host-associated microorganisms on mental health are advancing at a rapid pace and, if linked, could offer considerable benefit to health and wellness.
Social  The Microbiome Stress Project: Toward a Global Meta-Analysis of Environmental Stressors and Their Effects on Microbial Communities Microbial community structure is highly sensitive to natural (e.g. drought, temperature, fire) and anthropogenic (e.g. heavy metal exposure, land-use change) stressors. However, despite an immense amount of data generated, systematic, cross-environment analyses of microbiome responses to multiple disturbances are lacking. Here, we present the Microbiome Stress Project, an open-access database of environmental and host-associated 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing studies collected to facilitate cross-study analyses of microbiome responses to stressors. This database will comprise published and unpublished datasets re-processed from the raw sequences into exact sequence variants using our standardized computational pipeline. Our database will provide insight into general response patterns of microbiome diversity, structure, and stability to environmental stressors. It will also enable the identification of cross-study associations between single or multiple stressors and specific microbial clades. Here, we present a proof-of-concept meta-analysis of 606 microbiomes (from nine studies) to assess microbial community responses to: (1) one stressor in one environment: soil warming across a variety of soil types, (2) a range of stressors in one environment: soil microbiome responses to a comprehensive set of stressors (incl. temperature, diesel, antibiotics, land use change, drought, and heavy metals), (3) one stressor across a range of environments: copper exposure effects on soil, sediment, activated-sludge reactors, and gut environments, and (4) the general trends of microbiome stressor responses. Overall, we found that stressor exposure significantly decreases microbiome alpha diversity and increases beta diversity (community dispersion) across a range of environments and stressor types. We observed a hump-shaped relationship between microbial community resistance to stressors (i.e. the average pairwise similarity score between the control and stressed communities) and alpha diversity. We used Phylofactor to identify microbial clades and individual taxa as potential bioindicators of copper contamination across different environments. Using standardized computational and statistical methods, the Microbiome Stress Project will leverage thousands of existing datasets to build a general framework for how microbial communities respond to environmental stress.
